patent_number	patent_title	patent_abstract
10072305	Real-time PCR for the detection of pathogens	Disclosed herein are methods for detecting presence of one or more of Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Toxoplasma gondii, Moraxella catarrhalis, Escherichia coli, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus, Pneumocystis jirovecii, Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Ureaplasma parvum, Ureaplasma spp., Bartonella spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and Neisseria meningitidis nucleic acids in a sample, such as a biological sample obtained from a subject, or an environmental sample. This disclosure also provides probes, primers, and kits for detecting one or more of Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Toxoplasma gondii, Moraxella catarrhalis, Escherichia coli, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus, Pneumocystis jirovecii, Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Ureaplasma parvum, Ureaplasma spp., Bartonella spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and Neisseria meningitidis in a sample.
10077431	Phage therapy of pseudomonas infections	The present invention relates to bacteriophage therapy. More particularly, the present invention relates to novel bacteriophages having a high specificity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, their manufacture, components thereof, compositions comprising the same and the uses thereof in phage therapy.
10105380	Glycoclusters and their pharmaceutical use as antibacterials	A molecule responding to formula (I) of the glycocluster type with galactose residues at their extremities. Simple and efficient methods for the preparation of these compounds. Medical use of compounds (I) as inhibitors of infections by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, more specifically as inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa's virulence.
10117905	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin(s), and/or variants, derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins, that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues or animals. These compositions may be peptides or pharmaceutical compositions, among others. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
10159751	ExPEC glycoconjugate vaccine formulations	Compositions and methods for inducing an immune response against extra-intestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) are described. In particular, multivalent vaccines containing E. coli antigen polysaccharide covalently bound to a exotoxin A of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (EPA) carrier protein that can withstand multiple environmental stresses are described.
10179146	Compositions and methods for mitigating drug resistant bacteria	A broad-based remediation mechanism against MRFs and alternative fecal indicators such as multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including nanotechnology formulations and methodologies that may be used to develop novel mitigation strategies against certain drug resistant bacterial strains. The current invention relates to mitigation of drug resistant bacteria from nosocomial infections, for example in hospitals and in food animals, and to the identification and mitigation of lytic bacteria from algae biomass-fed wastewaters for algae cultivation. The invention uses hybrid nanomaterials comprising oligo-chitosan and zinc oxide formulated as nanoparticles and micelles. The inventors unexpectedly found unique properties of very small oligomers of chitosan that effectively mitigate MRF and alternative resistant strain-induced illnesses without compromising the balance of the beneficial flora in the physiological and ecological microenvironments. Also, the combination of chitosan with zinc oxide demonstrated synergistic and unexpected effects in remediation of important food-borne bacteria including the resistant types.
10221222	Dermaseptin-type and piscidin-type antimicrobial peptides	Antimicrobial agents, including antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) and uses thereof. Compositions and methods of using dermaseptin-type and piscidin-type antimicrobial peptides that demonstrate activity and improved therapeutic indices against microbial pathogens. The peptide compositions demonstrate the ability to not only maintain or improve antimicrobial activity against bacterial pathogens including Gram-negative microorganisms Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, but also significantly decrease hemolytic activity against human red blood cells. Specificity determinants within the AMPS change selectivity from broad spectrum antimicrobial activity to AMPS with gram-negative selectivity.
10238689	Methods for combating bacterial infections by killing persister cells with mitomycin C and/or cisplatin	The present disclosure provides a method for killing persister cells with mitomycin C and/or cisplatin, or derivatives thereof. Recalcitrant infections are difficult to treat due to persister cells, a subpopulation of all bacterial populations that is highly tolerant against all traditional antibiotics since the cells are dormant and antibiotics are designed to kill growing cells. Here, we show that MMC and cisplatin eradicate persister cells through a growth-independent mechanism, cross-linking DNA. We find both agents are effective against both planktonic cultures and highly robust biofilm cultures for a broad range of bacterial species, including commensal Escherichia coli K-12 as well as pathogenic species of E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In certain approaches cisplatin is superior to MMC.
10258640	Method of inhibiting quorum sensing in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	A method of inhibiting quorum sensing in Pseudomonas aeruginosa is provided. The method comprises contacting Pseudomonas aeruginosa with a gold(I) thiolate complex in an amount effective to inhibit quorum sensing in the Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Use of the method for the treatment or prevention of damage or disease associated with quorum sensing and/or biofilm formation in a subject, or for the treatment of biofilm and/or for inhibiting biofilm formation is also provided.
10260051	Phage therapy of Pseudomonas infections	The present invention relates to bacteriophage therapy. More particularly, the present invention relates to novel bacteriophages having a high specificity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, their manufacture, components thereof, compositions comprising the same and the uses thereof in phage therapy.
10266868	Compositions for treating HIV infection with cupredoxin and cytochrome C	The present invention relates to cupredoxin, specifically Pseudomonas aeruginosa azurin, and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa cytochrome c551 and their use in inhibiting of viral infection, and in particular infection of mammalian cells by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to variants and derivatives of cupredoxin and cytochrome c that retain the ability to inhibit viral infection, and in particular infection by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to research methods for studying viral and bacterial infection in mammalian cells.
10278393	Method for disinfecting a surface, and composition suitable for use therein	A method for disinfecting a surface contaminated with microorganisms or suspected of being contaminated with microorganisms, the microorganism being one or more of Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterococcus hirae, including the step of contacting the surface with a disinfecting composition including: 0.1-10 wt. % of one or more N-acylated amino acids or N-acylated peptides, or a salt thereof, less than 0.1 wt. % of hydrogen peroxide, 0.1-20 wt. % of one or more non-ethoxylated anionic surfactants, 0.05-5 wt. % of a carboxylic acid, wherein the disinfecting composition has a pH in the range of 1-4.5 wherein the composition includes less than 5 wt. % of ethoxylated anionic surfactant. The invention also pertains to a composition suitable for use in the method according to the invention. The method and composition provide excellent biocidal activity over a broad range of organisms using low concentrations of organic acids.
10285938	Composition for the treatment of burns, diabetic wounds, other types of wounds and subsequently greatly reduced scarring	Antimicrobial peptides represent a relatively new discovery in the immune system pathway. Recent designs of synthetically engineered antimicrobial peptides have demonstrated increased potency and efficacy/tolerability, enhanced specificity, and reduced toxicity in comparison. One such peptide, XYLENTRA®, has shown/demonstrated significant promise from significant in vitro studies against a large + pathogens. Additionally, extensive animal studies have shown that the XYLENTRA® is an antimicrobial peptide against a large number of pathogens. The XYLENTRA® peptide is also solute resistant. The peptide XYLENTRA® has shown/demonstrated significant antibacterial activity on test organisms Staphylococcus aureus MTCC 96 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. MTCC741. A substantial decrease in the microbial population level was observed in animals treated with peptide using the protocol described in detail in the application.
10292390	Inhibition and dispersion of bacterial biofilms with 2-aminobenzimidazole derivatives	Compounds described herein inhibit biofilm formation or disperse pre-formed biofilms of Gram-negative bacteria. Biofilm-inhibitory compounds can be encapsulated or contained in a polymer matrix for controlled release. Coatings, films, multilayer films, hydrogels, microspheres and nanospheres as well as pharmaceutical compositions and disinfecting compositions containing biofilm-inhibitory compounds are also provided. Methods for inhibiting formation of biofilms or dispersing already formed biofilms are provided. Methods for treating infections of gram-negative bacteria which form biofilms, particularly those of Pseudomonas and more particularly P. aeruginosa.
10308919	Method for preparing ascorbic acid-2-phosphate using a recombinant strain	The present invention provides a recombinant strain, construction method thereof and a method for producing acid phosphatase using the recombinant strain. In the invention, the phosphatase gene is obtained from Pseudomonas aeruginosa by a molecular biology method, the constructed expression plasmid is transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3). The purified enzyme and whole cells were used for the conversion of ascorbic acid to ascorbic acid-2-phosphate. Ascorbic acid-2-phosphate can be efficiently produced by controlling the ratio of substrates. When the conversion reaction is performed at pH 4.5 under 40° C. for 8 h, the output of ascorbic acid-2-phosphate reaches 54.8 g/L, the conversion is 42.9% and the space time yield is 6.9 g/L/h.
10316348	Diagnostic system and process for rapid bacterial infection diagnosis	Methods and devices for monitoring the viability of a biofilm comprising Pseudomonas Aeruginosa bacteria are provided by detecting pyocyanin. The invention relates to electrochemical methods and devices that offer a simple and inexpensive alternative for immediate identification of bacterial infection due to the presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In some embodiments, an inexpensive, disposable electrochemical sensor can be used to rapidly screen for the presence of P. aeruginosa in clinical wound effluent samples.
10321689	Antimicrobial traditional Chinese medicine composition, and preparation method and use thereof	An antimicrobial traditional Chinese medicine composition, and a preparation method and a use thereof are provided, wherein the antimicrobial traditional Chinese medicine composition is made from raw materials comprising fructus perillae, patchouli and usnea. Through the reasonable matching application and synergistic effects of traditional Chinese medicines, the extracted composition has a broad-spectrum antimicrobial effect, and is suitable for being used as a natural preservative. Experiments show that for each microorganism of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans and Aspergillus niger independently, the antimicrobial effect of the matched composition of the present invention is superior to the antimicrobial effect of single plants, the result where the total effect of the composition is better than sum of the effects of single plants is achieved, and the synergistic effect of antimicrobial effects among the plants is achieved.
10322118	Compounds and methods for inhibiting Cif virulence factor	The present invention provides a screening assay for identifying inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa CFTR Inhibitory Factor as well as compositions and methods for ameliorating or treating a respiratory disease such as cystic fibrosis or secondary infection thereof.
10328038	Siderophore-polymer conjugates for increasing bacterial sensitivity to antibiotics	The present technology provides siderophore-polymer conjugates that enhance the sensitivity of bacteria to antibiotics, e.g., Pseudomonas, P. aeruginosa, Acinetobacter, and A. baumannii.Methods of preparing and using such conjugates to treat bacterial infections are disclosed.
10342857	Chimeric polypeptides and their use in bacterial decolonization	The present invention relates to assays, kits and oligonucleotides for the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa for a fast, sensitive and reliable detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a species- and serotype-specific manner. In particular, the present invention provides an assay for the serotype-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a kit for the serotype-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, as well as oligonucleotides useful in such assay or kit. The present invention further relates to the use of Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype specific antibodies for serotype specific treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in a patient detected for said specific Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype with such an assay or kit.
10344078	Type III secretion system targeting molecules	This invention relates generally to molecules that specifically bind bacterial V-tip proteins of the type III secretion system of Gram negative bacteria such as PcrV from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. More specifically, this invention relates to molecules that block the injection of effector molecules into target cells. This invention also relates to molecules that specifically bind to bacterial lipoproteins, such as OprI. The molecules of the present invention are monospecific or multispecific and can bind their target antigen in a monovalent or multivalent manner. The invention also relates generally to molecules that specifically bind bacterial cell surface proteins such as OprI, and to methods of use these molecules in a variety of therapeutic, diagnostic, and/or prophylactic indications.
10351605	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer by stabilizing p53 through non MDM2-mediated pathways	The present invention relates to compositions and methods comprising chemopreventive agents that may be cupredoxin(s) or variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins, and at least one other chemopreventive agent. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent or inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
10369119	Inhibition of multiple pathogenic agents using bithionol	Compositions and methods including Bithionol are provided for treating, inhibiting, or preventing caspase-dependent pathogenic agents in a host cell or infected subject. Examples of caspase-dependent pathogenic agents include ricin, anthrax toxin, Botulinum neurotoxin A, diphtheria toxin, Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A, cholera toxin, Zika virus, and combinations thereof. Compositions and methods also include Bithionol in combination with an antibiotic for more effective clearance of the pathogen and/or toxins.
10407398	Inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa LecB	The present invention relates to compounds derived from deoxy fucose. These compounds are useful as lectin inhibitors, especially as inhibitors of LecB. The invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds. The invention further relates to therapeutic uses of these compounds, especially to the prophylaxis or treatment of infections involving Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10416153	Chemical fluorescent probes for detecting biofilms	The present invention relates to a family of fluorescent compounds based on the BODIPY scaffold, and methods for the preparation of said compounds. The present invention further relates to the use of said compounds for the detection of bacterial biofilms, wherein the bacterial biofilm comprises Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the compound specifically binds to a Fap protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or wherein the compound specifically binds to bacterial cells that contain high levels of cyclic-di-guanosine-monophosphate (c-di-GMP).
10422791	Haptens and conjugates derived from pyocyanin, antibodies thereof, and immunochemical method for detecting infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The present invention relates to a compound of general formula I and to the use thereof as a hapten.An object of the present invention is also a conjugate of said compound I with a carrier protein or fragment thereof, with a detectable labelling agent, or with a polymer or support, and to the use thereof for producing antibodies. Furthermore, the present invention also relates to a method for the detection and/or quantification of 1-hydroxyphenazine and/or pyocyanin using said antibodies and conjugates for the detection of infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10428126	Dermaseptin-type and piscidin-type antimicrobial peptides	Antimicrobial agents, including antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) and uses thereof. Compositions and methods of using dermaseptin-type and piscidin-type antimicrobial peptides that demonstrate activity and improved therapeutic indices against microbial pathogens. The peptide compositions demonstrate the ability to not only maintain or improve antimicrobial activity against bacterial pathogens including Gram-negative microorganisms Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, but also significantly decrease hemolytic activity against human red blood cells. Specificity determinants within the AMPS change selectivity from broad spectrum antimicrobial activity to AMPS with gram-negative selectivity.
10500263	Glycoconjugate vaccines comprising basic units of a molecular construct expressing built-in multiple epitopes for the formulation of a broad-spectrum vaccine against infections due to enteropathogenic bacteria	The present invention refers to new glycoconjugate antigens expressing built-in multiple epitopes and to polyvalent glycoconjugate vaccines intended for the protection of mammalians, and particularly for the protection of the human population from enteropathogenic bacteria, such as the Gram-positive anaerobic bacterium Clostridium difficile and the Gram-negative bacteria Salmonella typhi, Escherichia Coli, Vibrio Cholerae, Shigella flexneri, Salmonella typhimurium, Salmonella enteritidis, Salmonella paratyphi A, Shigella sonnei, Shigella dysenteriae, Salmonella cholerasuis, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and/or from viral gastrointestinal infections due to human noroviruses.
10512523	Apparatus and methods for hygiene testing a medical device	Provided among other things is a sampling system for determining an amount or type of contamination a narrow, elongated passageway in a medical device, said sampling system comprising: (a) a fluid supply system that supplies to said passageway a sampling liquid for flowing through said passageway and a gas for flowing through said passageway; and (b) a receiving container that receives liquid from said passageway, wherein said sampling liquid is sterile, wherein said sampling liquid is configured to allow recovery of viable pathogens from the passageway, and wherein said sampling liquid comprises an amount and selection of surfactant effective to enhance the dislodgement of Enterococcus faecalis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria from the narrow passageways.
10525145	ExPEC glycoconjugate vaccine formulations	Compositions and methods for inducing an immune response against extra-intestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) are described. In particular, multivalent vaccines containing E. coli antigen polysaccharide covalently bound to a exotoxin A of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (EPA) carrier protein that can withstand multiple environmental stresses are described.
10537593	Method, target and application for NO accumulation to decrease Pseudomonas aeruginosa invasiveness	Provided are a method, target and application for NO accumulation to decrease invasiveness of Pseudomonas aeruginosa; achieving NO accumulation by means of external NO donors or disruption of internal NO metabolism in an environment where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is growing or being cultured, in order to decrease production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa of the invasion factor pyocyanin. Utilizing even micro-quantities of NO can significantly inhibit Pseudomonas aeruginosa PCN (PCN synthesis down 82% with 60 μM SNP treatment); by inhibiting NO reductase, an enzyme related to NO metabolism, PCN synthesis can be significantly inhibited (the PAO1-Δnor strain has 84% PCN reduction). Using NO donors or inhibiting enzymes involved in Pseudomonas aeruginosa NO metabolism as a means of combating bacterial infectious disease does not affect the body's normal microflora like traditional antibiotics.
10537609	MUC1 decoy peptides for treatment and prevention of bacterial infections	Pseudomonas aeruginosa flagellin protein recruits the mammalian host sialidase enzyme neuraminidase-1 (NEU1) to remove sialic acid residues from the extracellular domain of the mammalian cell-surface protein MUC1 (MUC1-ED), thereby exposing a cryptic binding site on the MUC1-ED protein backbone for flagellin binding. NEU1-driven MUC1-ED desialylation rapidly increases P. aeruginosa adhesion to the airway epithelium. MUC1-ED desialylation also increases MUC1-ED cleavage and shedding from the cell surface, where desialylated, shed MUC1-ED competitively blocks P. aeruginosa adhesion to cell-associated MUC1-ED. Presented herein are data showing that exogenously-administered, deglycosylated MUC1-ED peptides reduced adhesion of P. aeruginosa to airway epithelial cells. Also presented are data showing that administration of P. aeruginosa to mice in combination with deglycosylated MUC1-ED decreased P. aeruginosa recovered from the lungs at 48 hr and 72 hr post-infection. Such findings are extended to the methods of treatment and prevention of bacterial infections defined herein.
10538443	Method of degradation and inactivation of antibiotics in water by immobilized enzymes onto functionalized supports	The present invention relates to a method for degrading and inactivating at least one xenobiotic, the at least one xenobiotic being present in an aqueous medium. The method comprises the steps of (a) grafting at least one enzyme onto a solid support, (b) incubating the solid support with the at least one enzyme into the aqueous medium and (c) measuring the evolution of the concentration of the at least one xenobiotic. The method is remarkable in that the at least one enzyme is New-Dehli metallo-β-lactamase 1, a laccase extracted from Pleurotus ostreatus and/or a β-lactamase extracted from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and in that the solid support is a moving bed carrier.
10568849	Method for preventing, treating, or ameliorating a microbial infection	A method for preventing, treating, or ameliorating a microbial infection can include administering thymoquinone or a pharmaceutical composition comprising thymoquinone to a patient in need thereof. The patient may be suffering from a microbial infection caused by gram-negative bacteria, gram-positive bacteria, or fungi. The microbial infection may be caused by gram negative bacteria. The gram-negative bacteria may include Acinetobacter baumannii. The gram-negative bacteria may include Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The microbial infection may be caused by antimicrobial sensitive Acinetobacter baumannii or antimicrobial resistant Acinetobacter baumannii.
10576100	Chitosan zinc oxide nanoparticle formulation for treating drug resistant bacteria	A broad-based remediation mechanism against MRFs and alternative fecal indicators such as multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including nanotechnology formulations and methodologies that may be used to develop novel treatment strategies against certain drug resistant bacterial strains. The current invention relates to the treatment of drug resistant bacteria from nosocomial infections, for example in hospitals and in food animals. The invention uses hybrid nanomaterials comprising oligo-chitosan and zinc oxide formulated as nanoparticles and micelles. The inventors unexpectedly found unique properties of very small oligomers of chitosan that effectively treat multi-drug resistant bacteria without compromising the balance of the beneficial flora in the physiological and ecological microenvironments in a host. Also, the combination of chitosan with zinc oxide demonstrated synergistic and unexpected effects in remediation of important food-borne bacteria including the resistant types.
10577404	Polypeptide derivatives from grass carp interferon and application thereof	Derivative polypeptide derived from a grass carp interferon and an application of the derivative polypeptide. An amino acid sequence of the derivative polypeptide is as shown in SEQ ID NO:1; the interferon-derived polypeptide has a high-efficiency antibacterial effect and can take effect against drug-resistant Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus agalactiae, Vibrio fluvialis or Aeromonas hydrophila. The interferon-derived polypeptide is less toxic to eukaryotes and can effectively reduce the mortality of mice in a mouse disease model caused by pathological bacteria. The interferon-derived polypeptide which is small in molecular weight is easily synthesized and has a good application value.
10583185	Methods and compositions for immune protection against extra-intestinal pathogenic E. coli	Compositions and methods are described for inducing an immune response against extra-intestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) to thereby provide immune protection against diseases associated with ExPEC. In particular, compositions and methods are described for using conjugates of E. coli polysaccharide antigens O25B, O1A, O2, and O6A covalently bound to a detoxified exotoxin A of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (EPA) carrier protein as vaccines for the prevention of invasive ExPEC disease caused by ExPEC serotypes O1A, O2, O6A and O25B.
10597693	Enrichment and selective culture of mycobacteria	A process for the enrichment and selective culture of mycobacteria contained in a biological sample, wherein all or part of the sample is inoculated in/on a culture medium including a nutritive component suitable for the development and growth of mycobacteria, wherein the culture medium includes, as selective agents, at least 9-chloro-9-(4′-diethylamino)phenyl-9,10-dihydro-10-phenylacridine hydrochloride (or C-390) and an agent capable of inhibiting Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria. The invention also relates to a culture medium suitable for implementing this process for the enrichment and selective culture of mycobacteria.
10626466	Compositions, kits and related methods for the detection and/or monitoring of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The present invention provides compositions, methods and kits for the species-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10675301	Chitosan oligomer and zinc oxide nanoparticle compositions for treating drug resistant bacteria and biofilm	A broad-based remediation mechanism against MRFs and alternative fecal indicators such as multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including nanotechnology formulations and methodologies that may be used to develop novel mitigation strategies against certain drug resistant bacterial strains. The current invention relates to mitigation of drug resistant bacteria, for example in hospitals and in food animals, and to the identification. The invention uses hybrid nanomaterials comprising oligo-chitosan and zinc oxide formulated as nanoparticles and micelles. The invention also relates to the treatment of multi-drug resistant biofilms which mimic in vivo conditions. The inventors unexpectedly found unique properties of very small oligomers of chitosan that effectively mitigate MRF and alternative resistant strain-induced illnesses without compromising the balance of the beneficial flora in the physiological and ecological microenvironments. The combination of chitosan with zinc oxide demonstrated synergistic and unexpected effects in treating multi-drug resistant pathogens.
10702491	Soap compositions and methods	Natural soap compositions and methods of manufacturing the same having anti-microbial properties for treating and preventing diaper rash and other microbial infections. The soap compositions may contain one or more fatty acids with carbon length ranging from four (C4) to twenty-two (C22) and/or natural fatty acid mixtures of coconut oil, olive oil, and/or tall oil fatty acids which are saponified with lye. The saponification lye may be sodium or potassium hydroxide. In preferred embodiments, the soap compositions contain at least one of sodium or potassium caprate, sodium or potassium caprylate, or mixtures thereof, especially 55:45% caprylate to caprate. The soap compositions are effective at treating or preventing diaper rashes and other microbial infections associated with Candida albicans (Ca—yeast), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Psa—a Gram negative bacteria), Staphylococcus aureus (Sa—a Gram positive bacteria), and Aspergillus niger (An—a mold).
10704076	Multi-tiered high through-put screen for compounds effective against bacterial biofilm and compounds effective for inhibiting and eradicating bacterial biofilm	A high through-put screening method for identifying agents effective for inhibiting biofilm formation and/or killing established biofilm are disclosed. The method includes three tiers, and each tier includes three specific biological process assays. The tier levels are a primary screen, a confirmation screen, and a dose-response screen, and the biological process assays include assays for total bacterial growth, bacterial metabolic activity, and biofilm formation. The series of assays may be run once or more than once at each tier. A library of compounds is subject to tier A and only compounds meeting a primary parameter advance to tier B, and only tier B compounds meeting a confirmation parameter advance to tier C, and only tier C compounds meeting a dose-response parameter are identified as putative agents effective for inhibiting and/or eradicating a biofilm, further wherein the assays are conducted for each compound subject to the respective tier. The method is effective and validated for identifying agents which inhibit and/or kill Staphylococcus epidermidis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Acinetobacter baumannii biofilms. Agents identified according to the high through-put screen and validated in follow-up experiments as effective for inhibiting and/or killing bacterial biofilms are also disclosed.
10729690	Antihelminthic medications for pathogenic nematodes	Inappropriate activation of innate immune responses in nematode intestinal epithelial cells underlies the pathophysiology of some inflammatory disorders. Immunostimulatory xenobiotics are known to protect nematodes from bacterial infection (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa). Conversely, these same xenobiotics are toxic to uninfected nematodes. These xenobiotics were subjected to a forward genetic screen in uninfected nematodes to identify nematode mutants that were resistant to the deleterious effects of these xenobiotics. These resistant nematode strains contained hypomorphic mutations in each of the known components of the p38 MAP kinase cassette (tir-1, nsy-1, sek-1 and pmk-1), demonstrating that hyperstimulation of p38 MAPK innate immune responses may be responsible for the induced toxicity. A second genetic screen using dominant activators of the p38 MAPK pathway identified a single allele that had a gain-of-function (gf) mutation in nsy-1, the MAP kinase kinase kinase that acts upstream of p38 MAPK pmk-1.
10730912	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antimicrobial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formula wherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depending on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments to treat or prevent infections. These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
10744189	Lysin polypeptides active against Gram-negative bacteria	The present disclosure provides methods and compositions useful for the prophylactic and therapeutic amelioration and treatment of infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The disclosure further provides compositions and methods of incorporating and utilizing lysin polypeptides of the present disclosure for augmenting the efficacy of antibiotics generally suitable for the treatment of Gram-negative bacterial infection.
10745466	Type III secretion system targeting molecules	This invention relates generally to molecules that specifically bind bacterial V-tip proteins of the type III secretion system of Gram negative bacteria such as PcrV from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. More specifically, this invention relates to molecules that block the injection of effector molecules into target cells. This invention also relates to molecules that specifically bind to bacterial lipoproteins, such as OprI. The molecules of the present invention are monospecific or multispecific and can bind their target antigen in a monovalent or multivalent manner. The invention also relates generally to molecules that specifically bind bacterial cell surface proteins such as OprI, and to methods of use these molecules in a variety of therapeutic, diagnostic, and/or prophylactic indications.
10787386	Antimicrobial-antireflective articles and methods for making the same	Described herein are antimicrobial articles having improved antimicrobial efficacy and antireflective properties. Further described are methods of making and using the improved articles. The antimicrobial articles generally include an antimicrobial element and an antireflective element. The antireflective element, in some cases, can be disposed directly on a glass, glass-ceramic or ceramic substrate and the antimicrobial element is disposed on the antireflective element. The article can exhibit a reflectance of about 4% or less (and less than 1% in some cases) in the range of about 425 nm to about 725 nm. Further, the article can be characterized with an antimicrobial efficacy by exhibiting at least a 2 log reduction in a concentration of at least Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria under a Modified EPA Copper Test Protocol.
10793594	Antimicrobial compounds and/or modulators of microbial infections and methods of using the same	Some embodiments include compounds that can inhibit the growth of bacterial and/or inhibit or reduce microbial infections caused by one or more microorganisms (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Cryptococcus neoformans) and methods of using these compounds to treat microbial infection and outbreaks and/or to reduce the formation of biofilms. Other embodiments include synthesis of the compounds that can inhibit the growth of one or more microorganisms and/or inhibit or reduce microbial infections.
10801053	Process for producing a rhamnolipid produced by Pseudomonas or Enterobacter using andiroba or murumuru seed waste	Process for producing a rhamnolipid produced by Pseudomonas or Enterobacter using andiroba or murumuru seed waste, pertaining to the sector of compounds containing monosaccharide radicals, consists of producing rhamnolipids by a biotechnological process using andiroba or murumuru seed waste, following oil extraction, as a substrate for a Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter hormaechei or Enterobacter buriae line cultivated in a bioreactor with a non-dispersive aeration system for reducing foam, producing a rhamnolipid content of 10.5 g/L for Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, in bioreactors carried out in a stirred tank with non-dispersive aeration using microporous membranes, particularly of silicone tubes, which allow oxygen to be supplied by diffusion. This type of aeration allows for various configurations, and in the embodiment of the invention, the porous membrane/tube was internally located in the liquid in the bioreactor in the form of a serpentine, under the following process conditions: pure oxygen with suitable pressure and flow rate to maintain O2 pressure in the bioreactor at 20% during the first 24 hours of the assay and stirring varying from 300 to 700 rpm, using 2 radial impellers and manual adjustment according to the decrease in the concentration of dissolved oxygen. The product produced has features that can be used primarily in the cosmetic industry due to its emulsifying, stability and non toxicity capacities.
10829520	Beta-hairpin peptidomimetics	Beta-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formula (I), and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, with P, T, Q, and optionally L being elements as defined in the description and the claims, have Gram-negative antimicrobial activity to e.g. inhibit the growth or to kill microorganisms such as Klebsiella pneumoniae and/or Acinetobacter baumannii and/or Escherichia coli and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as medicaments to treat or prevent infections or as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials.These peptidomimetics can be manufactured by a process which is based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
10835607	Monoclonal antibody and vaccine targeting filamentous bacteriophage	Described here is a method for reducing or preventing Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm formation in a human subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the human subject a first composition comprising (a) an antigen-binding polypeptide that binds Pf-family bacteriophage, or (b) a vaccine against Pf-family bacteriophage. Also described is an antigen-binding polypeptide that binds specifically to a CoaB protein of Pf-family bacteriophage or fragment thereof.
10842795	Chemosensitization of resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa by synthetically related compounds	Compounds for the chemosensitization of antibiotic resistant bacteria such as multidrug resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) are provided. The compounds inhibit the MDR efflux proteins and re-sensitize the bacteria towards killing by antibiotics. Thus, the compounds are used in combination with antibiotics to treat or prevent infections caused by MDR bacteria.
10844394	Activity of AHPF protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and use therefor	An AhpF protein has thioredoxin reductase, peroxidase, and chaperone activities and is derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and a use therefor. By using a novel activity of the AhpF of Pseudomonas aeruginosa according to the present invention, it is possible to produce a plant having strong resistance to various environmental stresses such as oxidative stress or heat stress, thereby making it possible to contribute to increasing crop productivity and mass production of useful constituents. In addition, it is possible to prevent desertification and environmental pollution through the development of transformed plants having resistance to high temperatures and drying.
10870710	Synthetic oligosaccharide subunits of the Psl exopolysaccharide of pseudomonas aeruginosa and uses thereof	This disclosure relates to synthetic oligosaccharide subunits of the Pseudomonas exosaccharide Psi and uses thereof, e.g., for epitope mapping of anti-Psl antibodies, for identification of anti-Psl antibodies, and for use as vaccines. In one aspect a synthetic oligosaccharide subunit of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa Psl oligosaccharide is provided, comprising the trisaccharide of formula I.
10874745	Antimicrobial peptides and methods of treating gram-negative pathogens: polar and non-polar face analogs	Antimicrobial agents, including antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), and uses thereof. Compositions and methods of using dermaseptin-type and piscidin-type antimicrobial peptide variants that demonstrate activity and improved therapeutic indices against microbial pathogens. The peptide compositions demonstrate the ability to not only maintain or improve antimicrobial activity against bacterial pathogens including Gram-negative microorganisms Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, but also significantly decrease hemolytic activity against human red blood cells. Specificity determinants within the AMPs change selectivity from broad spectrum antimicrobial activity to Gram-negative selectivity.
10883150	Isolated Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacterial strain, named CSMY-1, deposited under accession number RGM2262, which has the capacity to degrade pollutants present in the environment, in soils or liquid industrial waste, and arsenic-containing waste	The invention relates to an isolated bacterial strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa species, referred to as Pseudomonas aeruginosa CSMY-1, deposited in the Microbial Genetic Resources Bank of the Chilean Collection of Microbial Genetic Resources (CChRGM), under accession number RGM2262, on Aug. 7, 2015, which is a facultative strain that can remove chemical components having characteristics that pollute natural or industrial effluents or soils by degrading compounds. The invention also relates to a method for the pollutant bioremediation of a contaminated environments, comprising: a) adding bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa CSMY-1 in the form of a biofilm to said contaminated environment; and b) incubating said bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa CSMY-1 in the form of a biofilm in said environment.
10888566	Chemosensitization of resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa by synthetically related compounds	Compounds for the chemosensitization of antibiotic resistant bacteria such as multidrug resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) are provided. The compounds inhibit the MDR efflux proteins and re-sensitize the bacteria towards killing by antibiotics. Thus, the compounds are used in combination with antibiotics to treat or prevent infections caused by MDR bacteria.
10898530	Phage therapy	The present invention relates to bacteriophage therapy. More particularly, the present invention relates to novel bacteriophages having a high specificity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, their manufacture, components thereof, compositions comprising the same and the uses thereof in phage therapy.
10908153	Pseudomonas aeruginosa inhibitor compounds	The invention relates to a method of identifying molecules which inhibit the virulence machinery of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, to a device for identifying a molecule which inhibits the virulence machinery of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, to novel compounds which inhibit the virulence machinery of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, to compounds for use for preventing and/or treating a pathogenic infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and also to pharmaceutical compositions for preventing and/or treating a pathogenic infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10933097	Method of treating a bacterial infection using colostrum	The method of treating a bacterial infection using colostrum includes administering an effective amount of colostrum to a subject in need thereof. The infection can be caused by G+ or G− bacteria. The colostrum administered may be selected from the group consisting of bovine colostrum, camel colostrum, and a mixture of bovine colostrum and camel colostrum. The bacterial infection may be selected from the group consisting of Staphylococcus aureus subs. aureus Rosenbach, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. A colostrum composition can include a mixture of bone and camel colostrum and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
10952432	Cannabidiol compositions and uses thereof	The present invention is directed to use of cannabidiol and compositions thereof as an anti-bacterial agent against multi-drug resistant bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10953081	Methods and compositions for inducing an immune response to Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infections	The invention provides methods and compositions for preventing or ameliorating pulmonary infections with Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
10954149	Process for bio-sludge reduction in hydrocarbon refinery effluent treatment plant through microbial interventions	A process for treatment of hydrocarbon refinery wastewater producing a low bio-sludge, the process including utilizing microbial consortia comprising at least one species of Pseudomonas and at least one species of Bacillus in a ratio of 10:1 to 1:10. The species of Pseudomonas and species of Bacillus have constitutive expression of at least one hydrocarbon degrading gene. The species of Pseudomonas are selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas stutzeri (MTCC 25027), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MTCC 5389), Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain IOC DHT (MTCC, 5385), Pseudomonas putida IOCR1 (MTCC 5387), Pseudomonas putida IOC5a1 (MTCC 5388) and a mutant thereof. The species of Bacillus are selected from the group consisting of Bacillus subtilis (MTCC 25026), Bacillus substilis (MTCC 5386), Bacillus thermoleovorans (MTCC 25023), Bacillus stearothermophilus (MTCC 25030), Lysinibacillus sp. (MTCC 25029), Lysinibacillus sp. (MTCC 5666) and a mutant thereof. The microbial consortia is used in concentration of at least 102 cfu/ml.
11026982	Method for reducing the likelihood of developing bladder or colorectal cancer in an individual human being	A method for treating an individual suffering from one of bladder cancer and colorectal cancer employs a CRISPR system to selectively kill or reduce the numbers of pathogenic bacteria within the individual and the individual is then administered an immune checkpoint inhibitor. In particular embodiments, the pathogenic bacteria is one of E. coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella bacteria, and the checkpoint inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of nivolumab, pembrolizumab, pidilizumab, AMP-224, AMP-514, STI-A1110, TSR-042, RG-7446, BMS-936559, MEDI-4736, MSB-0020718C, AUR-012 and STI-A1010. Further embodiments include enhancing the growth of a second bacteria in the individual, such bacteria including Akkermansia, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Fusobacterium, Lactobacillus, Propionibacterium, Ruminococcus, Veillonella, Prevotella, Escherichia and Streptococcus. Still other embodiments include increasing the levels of Roseburia and/or Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, in the individual's gut microbiome.
11033633	ExPEC glycoconjugate vaccine formulations	Compositions and methods for inducing an immune response against extra-intestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) are described. In particular, multivalent vaccines containing O-antigen polysaccharide covalently bound to an exotoxin A of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (EPA) carrier protein that can withstand multiple environmental stresses are described.
11039619	Antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and polymeric articles incorporating the same	Embodiments of the present invention pertain to antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and articles. The articles include a glass, which may include a glass phase and a cuprite phase. In other embodiments, the glasses include as plurality of Cu1+ ions, a degradable phase including B2O3, P2O5 and K2O and a durable phase including SiO2. Other embodiments include glasses having a plurality of Cu1+ ions disposed on the surface of the glass and in the glass network and/or the glass matrix. The article may also include a polymer. The glasses and articles disclosed herein exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of at least one of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and E. coli, under the EPA Test Method for Efficacy of Copper Alloy as a Sanitizer testing conditions and under Modified JIS Z 2801 for Bacteria testing conditions. In some embodiments, the glass and articles exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of Murine Norovirus under Modified JIS Z 2801 Test for Viruses testing conditions.
11039620	Antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and polymeric articles incorporating the same	Embodiments of the present invention pertain to antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and articles. The articles include a glass, which may include a glass phase and a cuprite phase. In other embodiments, the glasses include as plurality of Cu1+ ions, a degradable phase including B2O3, P2O5 and K2O and a durable phase including SiO2. Other embodiments include glasses having a plurality of Cu1+ ions disposed on the surface of the glass and in the glass network and/or the glass matrix. The article may also include a polymer. The glasses and articles disclosed herein exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of at least one of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and E. coli, under the EPA Test Method for Efficacy of Copper Alloy as a Sanitizer testing conditions and under Modified JIS Z 2801 for Bacteria testing conditions. In some embodiments, the glass and articles exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of Murine Norovirus under Modified JIS Z 2801 Test for Viruses testing conditions.
11045485	Glycomimetic inhibitors of PA-IL and PA-IIL lectins	Compounds, compositions, and methods for the diagnosis and/or treatment of medical conditions involving infections with and colonization by Pseudomonas bacteria including, for example, Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis are described.
11046733	Compositions and methods to treat cancer with CpG rich DNA and cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising CpG rich DNA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compositions optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention includes specific CpG DNAs from Pseudomonas aeruginosa that are useful for treating cancer and other conditions in patients. These compositions are optionally in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and also optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention further relates to methods to express proteins near cancer cells. These methods may be used to express therapeutic or diagnostic proteins near cancer cells in a patient suffering from cancer or other conditions, and can also be used for diagnosing cancer in a patient. This method uses the gene for azurin from P. aeruginosa as an expression system for azurin or heterologous proteins in P. aeruginosa or heterologous cells.
11058716	Method, target and application for NO accumulation to decrease Pseudomonas aeruginosa invasiveness	Provided are a method, target and application for NO accumulation to decrease invasiveness of Pseudomonas aeruginosa; achieving NO accumulation by means of external NO donors or disruption of internal NO metabolism in an environment where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is growing or being cultured, in order to decrease production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa of the invasion factor pyocyanin. Utilizing even micro-quantities of NO can significantly inhibit Pseudomonas aeruginosa PCN (PCN synthesis down 82% with 60 μM SNP treatment); by inhibiting NO reductase, an enzyme related to NO metabolism, PCN synthesis can be significantly inhibited (the PAO1-Δnor strain has 84% PCN reduction). Using NO donors or inhibiting enzymes involved in Pseudomonas aeruginosa NO metabolism as a means of combating bacterial infectious disease does not affect the body's normal microflora like traditional antibiotics.
11066461	Method for preventing or treating nosocomial pneumonia	A method for preventing or treating nosocomial diseases, e.g., diseases caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is provided. The method includes administering to a susceptible human subject a specified dose of a bispecific antibody that specifically binds Pseudomonas aeruginosa Psl and PcrV.
11102979	Antimicrobial phase-separable glass/polymer articles and methods for making the same	An antimicrobial article that includes: an antimicrobial composite region that includes a matrix comprising a polymeric material, and a first plurality of particles within the matrix. The particles include a phase-separable glass with a copper-containing antimicrobial agent. The antimicrobial composite region can be a film containing the first plurality of particles that is subsequently laminated to a bulk element. The first plurality of particles can also be pressed into the film or a bulk element to define an antimicrobial composite region. An exposed surface portion of the antimicrobial composite region can exhibit at least a log 2 reduction in a concentration of at least one of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria under a Modified EPA Copper Test Protocol.
11116824	Chimeric polypeptides and their use in bacterial decolonization	The present invention relates to assays, kits and oligonucleotides for the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa for a fast, sensitive and reliable detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a species- and serotype-specific manner. In particular, the present invention provides an assay for the serotype-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a kit for the serotype-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, as well as oligonucleotides useful in such assay or kit. The present invention further relates to the use of Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype specific antibodies for serotype specific treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in a patient detected for said specific Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotype with such an assay or kit.
11129840	Methods for identifying novel dosing regimens	Methods of treating a Gram negative bacterial infection comprising a co-administration regimen of an effective amount of fosfomycin together with at least one antimicrobial agent selected from the group consisting of piperacillin-tazobactam, ceftazidime and meropenem to an infected subject. A further method of treating a subject with a bacterial infection that includes infection with a “resistant” mutant subpopulation selected from the group consisting of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii and E. coli, the method comprising (a) obtaining a sample from a subject suffering from a bacterial infection; (b) identifying the presence of the “resistant” mutant subpopulation in said sample; and (c) co-administering fosfomycin and at least one antimicrobial agent to the subject, wherein after the co-administration, the bacterial density is effectively reduced and the “resistant” mutant subpopulation is inhibited.
11147778	Siderophore-polymer conjugates for increasing bacterial sensitivity to antibiotics	The present technology provides siderophore-polymer conjugates that enhance the sensitivity of bacteria to antibiotics, e.g., Pseudomonas, P. aeruginosa, Acinetobacter, and A. baumannii. Methods of preparing and using such conjugates to treat bacterial infections are disclosed.
11154582	Method of chinese herbal medicine extract used for treating multiple diseases caused by drug resistant bacteria infection	Disclosed is a new drug application of a Pithecellobium Clypearia Benth Extract (EA), and particularly is a method of the EA used for treating multiple diseases caused by drug resistant bacteria infection. Related drug resistant bacteria include a Multi-Drug Resistant (MDR) Acinetobacter Baumannii (MDRAB), an MDR Pseudomonas Aeruginosa (MDRPA), an Extended-Spectrum Beta-Lactamase (ESBL) producing Escherichia Coli (ECO) and an ESBL-producing Klebsiella Pneumonia (KPN).
11162144	Real-time PCR for the detection of pathogens	Methods for detecting presence of one or more of Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Toxoplasma gondii, Moraxella catarrhalis, Escherichia coli, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus, Pneumocystis jirovecii, Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Ureaplasma parvum, Ureaplasma spp., Bartonella spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and Neisseria meningitidis nucleic acids in a sample, such as a biological sample obtained from a subject, or an environmental sample, are provided. This disclosure also provides probes, primers, and kits for detecting one or more of Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Toxoplasma gondii, Moraxella catarrhalis, Escherichia coli, Shigella, Staphylococcus aureus, Pneumocystis jirovecii, Chlamydia trachomatis, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Ureaplasma parvum, Ureaplasma spp., Bartonella spp., Streptococcus agalactiae, and Neisseria meningitidis in a sample.
11167019	Self-adjuvanting yersinia outer membrane vesicle as a vaccine against plague, anthrax and pseudomonas infection	A vaccine platform using a Yersinia pestis mutant synthesizing an adjuvant form lipid A (monophosphoryl lipid A, MPLA) for the increased biogenesis of bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). To enhance the immunogenicity of the OMVs, an Asd-based balanced-lethal host-vector system was constructed to oversynthesize the LcrV antigen of Y. pestis, raise the amounts of LcrV enclosed in OMVs by Type II secretion system, and eliminate harmful factors like plasminogen activator (Pla) and murine toxin from the OMVs. Vaccination with OMVs containing MPLA and increased amounts of LcrV with diminished toxicity afforded complete protection in mice against subcutaneous challenge and intranasal challenge and was significantly superior to that resulting from vaccination with LcrV/alhydrogel. Additionally, the Yersinia OMV can be used as a platform to deliver the heterologous antigens of Bacillus anthraces. Vaccination with multiantigenic self-adjuvanting bionanoparticles from Pseudomonas was also successfully tested in connection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
11168132	Treatment of polybacterial infections	Provided herein are methods of preventing and treating polybacterial infections comprising administering an effective amount of an antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof that specifically binds to an epitope produced by at least one of the bacterium in the polybacterial infection. For example, an antibody that specifically binds to Staphylococcus aureus alpha toxin can be administered to a patient with a polybacterial infection comprising Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa to inhibit the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
11191613	Apparatus and methods for hygiene testing a medical device	Provided among other things is a sampling system for determining an amount or type of contamination a narrow, elongated passageway in a medical device, said sampling system comprising: (a) a fluid supply system that supplies to said passageway a sampling liquid for flowing through said passageway and a gas for flowing through said passageway; and (b) a receiving container that receives liquid from said passageway, wherein said sampling liquid is sterile, wherein said sampling liquid is configured to allow recovery of viable pathogens from the passageway, and wherein said sampling liquid comprises an amount and selection of surfactant effective to enhance the dislodgement of Enterococcus faecalis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria from the narrow passageways.
11192155	Phage and use thereof in soil remediation	A phage and use thereof in soil remediation are disclosed. The phage φYSZPK has been deposited at the China Center for Type Culture Collection on Aug. 1, 2018 under Accession No. CCTCC M 2018516, and its taxonomic designation is Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella phage φYSZPK. Biochar and the screened phage are combined and returned into contaminated soil to synergistically control and deeply track and inactivate transmission and spread of antibiotic resistance pathogenic bacteria and resistance genes in a soil-vegetable system. The combination of the biochar and the phage φYSZPK not only clearly improves the functional stability of microbial community in the soil-vegetable system, but also significantly alleviates the dissemination of the antibiotic resistance pathogenic bacteria in the soil-vegetable system to prevent secondary pollution, thereby providing a new solution for biological remediation and control of farmland soil contaminated by antibiotic resistance pathogenic bacteria in China.
11192888	Antibacterial compounds	Novel compounds having antimicrobial activity, in particular against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Burkholderia cepacia and/or Clostridium difficile, and a pharmaceutical composition containing the novel compound.
11208421	2-carboxypenam compound or salt thereof, pharmaceutical composition containing novel 2-carboxypenam compound or salt thereof, and applications thereof	An object of the present invention is to provide a compound and a pharmaceutical composition which exhibit strong antibacterial activity against Gram-negative bacteria and drug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria. According to the present invention, a compound represented by General Formula [1] (the reference signs in the formula have the same definitions as those described in the present specification) or a salt thereof has strong antibacterial activity against Gram-negative bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and drug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria including multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the pharmaceutical composition containing the compound or a salt thereof is useful as an antibacterial agent.
3948882	Process for the production of a 1-N((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'- d	"Process of producing a 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin, a useful semi-synthetic antibiotic in which the corresponding 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycine undergoes the acyl-migration reaction by treating with a basic medium. This invention relates to a process for the production of a 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin which is useful for the treatment of various bacterial infections. More particularly, this invention relates to a process for the production of 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-amino-n-butyryl)- 3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin. Kanamycins and neamine (that is, neomycin A) are well known aminoglycosidic antibiotics, and riboostamycin is also a known aminoglycosidic antibiotic, originally designated vistamycin or Antibiotic SF-733 (see the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 23, No. 3, pages 115-161 and No. 4, pages 173-183 (1970)). Ribostamycin has been identified as 5-0-.beta.-D-ribofuranosylneamine. These aminoglycosidic antibiotics have widely been used as valuable, chemotherapeutic agents, but many drug-resistant strains which are resistant to these known antibiotic have occurred in recent years. In these circumstances, the mechanism of resistance of the drug-resistant bacteria to the known aminoglycosidic antibiotics has been studied. For instance, one of the present inventors, H. Umezawa et al. have found that some R-factor carrying strains of gram-negative bacteria, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from patients are resistant to the action of kanamycins and that these kanamycin-resistant strains have the mechanism of resistance that they produce an enzyme capable of phosphorylating the 3'-hydroxyl group of kanamycins and inactivate the kanamucins with aid of this phosphorylating enzyme (see the ""Science"" Vol. 157, page 1559 (1967)). On the basis of this finding, H. Umezawa et al have prepared semi-synthetically 3'-deoxykanamycin and 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin B wherein the 3'-hydroxyl group of the kanamycin molecule has been removed therefrom, as well as 3',4'-dideoxyneamine and 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin (namely, 3',4'-dideoxyvistamycin) as described in the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Ser. A, Vol. 21, pages 274-275 (1971); Vol. 24, pages 485-487; Vol. 24, pages 711-712 (1971) and Vol. 25, pages 613-617 (1972). 3'-deoxykanamycin; 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin B; 3',4'-dideoxyneamine and 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin are actually effective against the above-mentioned kanamycin-resistant strains, but these deoxy-derivatives have now been found to be practically inactive against another kind of kanamycin-resistant strains such as Escherichia coli JR66/W677 which has been isolated from another patients. H. Umezawa et al. have found that the latter kind of the kanamycin-resistant strains has the mechanism of resistance that they produce an enzyme capable of adenylylating the 2""-hydroxyl group of the kanamycin or 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin molecule with ATP (adenosine triphosphate) and inactivate kanamycin and 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin through the action of this adenylylating enzyme (see the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 24, pages 911-913 (1971)). Furthermore, it has been found that a class of the drug-resistant gram-negative bacteria such as R-factor carrying strains of Escherichia coli for example, Escherichia coli JR66/W 677 and LA290R55 has the mechanism of resistance that it produces an enzyme capable of nucleotidylating the 2""-hydroxyl group of kanamycin A and 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin B molecule and inactivates the kanamycin and 3',4'-dideoxykanamycin B with aid of this enzyme (see the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 25, page 492 (1972)). On the other hand, it is known that butirosin B which is an aminoglycosidic antibiotic produced by a microorganism Streptomyces species is active against some kanamycin-resistant bacteria as well as against some ribostamycin-resistant bacteria. Butirosin B has been identified as 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-amino-n-butyryl)-ribostamycin (see the ""Tetrahedron Letters"" Vol. 28, page 2125 and pages 2617-2630 (1971) and German ""Offenlegungsschrift"" No. 1914527). From comparison of the antibacterial activity of ribostamycin with that of butirosin B, it has been appreciated that the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-amino-butyryl substituent at the 1-amino group of the butirosin b molecule has an important role in enabling the ribostamycin to be active even against the ribostamycin-resistant and -sensitive strains and that the presence of the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-amino-butyryl substituent at the 1-amino group of the butirosin B molecule results in such a steric hindrance of the butirosin B molecule owing to which the butirosin B can be prevented from being inactivated by the attack of the various inactivating enzymes which are produced by the kanamycin-resistant strains of ribostamycin-resistant strains. On the basis of these findings, H. Umezawa et al. have synthetized 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl) derivatives of neamine, 3',4'-dideoxyneamine, ribostamycin or 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin and have found that these compounds exhibit usefully high antibacterial activity against the drug-resistant bacteria (see co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 402,085; British patent application No. 46,397/73; German patent application No. P 23 50169.1 and French patent application No. 73 36291, as well as the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 26, pages 304-309 (May 1973)). Accordingly, we have made our further research in an attempt to exploit a new efficient process according to which a 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin can be synthetized in a facile way and in a favorable yield. 3',4'-dideoxyneamine and 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin may be represented by a general formula (I): ##SPC1## wherein R is a hydrogen atom or .beta.-D-ribofuranosyl group of the formula ##SPC2## 3',4'-dideoxyneamine is shown by the above general formula (I) when R is a hydrogen atom, and 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin is shown by the above general formula (I) when R is a .beta.-D-ribofuranosyl group (see the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 24, pages 711-712 (1971) and Vol. 25, pages 613-616 (1972)). An object of this invention is to provide a new route according to which a 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin of a general formula (II): ##SPC3## wherein R is a hydrogen atom or .beta.-D-ribofuranosyl group and n is a whole number of 1 to 4 inclusive, in a relatively facile way and in an improved yield, and in which the corresponding 6-0-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3',4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin is at first prepared by esterifying the 6-OH group of the 3',4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin with the (S)-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoalkanoic acid or a reactive derivative thereof and is then subjected to the action of an alkaline medium so as to cause the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl substituent ##EQU1## to migrate from the 6-OH group to the 1-NH.sub.2 group of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin. The symbol (S) shown in the formula (II) is an expression of the steric configuration of organic compounds (see R. S. Cahn, C. K. Ingold & V. Prelog; ""Experitia"" Vol. 12 pages 81-94 (1956). A further object of this invention is to provide a new process for the production of 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-amino-n-butyryl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin which may be carried out in a relatively facile way and gives the desired product in an improved yield. Another objects of this invention will be clear from the following descriptions. According to this invention, there is provided a process for the production of a 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (II): ##SPC4## wherein R is a hydrogen atom or .beta.-D-ribofuranosyl group of the formula ##SPC5## and n is a whole number of 1 to 4, which comprises subjecting a 6-0-(((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (III): ##SPC6## wherein R' is a hydrogen atom, a known hydroxyl-protecting group such as an acyl group or a .beta.-D-ribofuranosyl group of the formula ##SPC7## where each Y is independently a hydrogen atom or a known hydroxyl-protecting group such as an acyl group, for example, an alkanoyl group of 2-6 carbon atoms (e.g., acetyl, propionyl or butyryl), an aminoalkanoyl group of 2-6 carbon atoms (e.g., .beta.-hydroxyl-.gamma.-amino-n-butyryl), benzoyl, benzyl, methoxycyclohexyl or cyclohexylidene; and R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 may be the same or different and each is independently a hydrogen atom or a known amino-protecting group selected from an acyl group such as an alkanoyl group of 2-6 carbon atoms (e.g., acetyl, propionyl or butyryl), an alkoxycarbonyl group such as an alkoxycarbonyl group of 2-5 carbon atoms (e.g., methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl or butoxycarbonyl), an aralkyloxycarbonyl group such as phenylalkyloxycarbonyl group containing the alkyl group of 1-4 carbon atoms (e.g., benzyloxycarbonyl) or an aryloxycarbonyl group (e.g., phenyloxycarbonyl or naphthyloxycarbonyl); or R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 taken together forms a phthaloyl group; and n is a whole number of 1 to 4, to the action of a basic medium to produce an acyl-migration product of the formula (IV): ##SPC8## wherein R', R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and n have the same meanings as defined above, and if at least one of the amino-protecting and hydroxyl-protecting groups remain in the acyl-migration product removing the amino-protecting group and the hydroxyl-protecting group from the acyl-migration product (IV), to give the desired product (II). In carrying out the process of this invention, the starting compound 6-0-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxyl-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin (III) may be subjected to the action of the basic or alkaline medium by treating the starting compound in solution in water or an organic solvent under basic or alkaline conditions which are provided by the presence of an organic base such as tertiary amine, for example, triethylamine or hydrazine or an inorganic base such as an alkali metal hydroxide, for example, sodium or potassium hydroxide or carbonate or a basic anion-exchange resin in such a quantity enough to give the basicity or alkalinity to the solution of the starting compound. This basic treatment may be done simply by dissolving the starting compound in a solvent therefore but containing a base in an amount sufficient to make the solution basic or by adding to a solution of the starting compound a base in an amount sufficient to make the solution basic, and then by heating the basic solution of the starting compound at an elevated temperature, preferably at a temperature of 50.degree.-100.degree.C. As the organic solvent which may be used as the reaction medium for the basic treatment of the present process, there may be mentioned a lower alkanol of 1-4 carbon atoms, for example, methanol, ethanol, butanol and propanol, either aqueous or anhydrous. When the starting compound of the formula (III) is subjected to the action of the basic medium in this way, there takes place such a reaction of rearrangement wherein the group --COCH(OH)(CH.sub.2).sub.n NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 bonded through the ester-linkage to the hydroxyl group in the 6-position of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin molecule of the starting compound is liberated therefrom and transferred to the amino group in the adjacent 1-position of said molecule, producing the acyl-migration product of the formula (IV). This reaction of rearrangement, that is, the reaction in which such an acyl group having been bonded through the ester-linkage to a hydroxyl substituent on a carbon atom of an organic compound molecule is caused to transfer from said hydroxyl group to such an amino substituent which is existing on a carbon atom adjacent to the first-mentioned carbon atom and in the ""trans""-position in relation to said hydroxyl group, by making alkaline or basic the conditions of the environment medium wherein the organic compound molecule is present, is the new reaction which was previously discovered by the present inventors (see co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 390,217; British patent application No. 39735/73; German patent application No.P 23 42946.1 and French patent application No. 73 30875, as well as the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 26, pages 365-367 (1973)). This new reaction which was discovered by the present inventors is utilized in the process of this invention. It is known that, in general, an acyl group is likely to be bonded to a hydroxyl group under acidic conditions but is likely to be bonded to an amino group under basic conditions, so that the acyl group migrates from the hydroxyl group to the amino group when the nature of the environment medium containing the aforesaid different groups is reversed from acidicity to basicity, and vice versa. This phenomena is known as ""acyl migration"" (see ""Organic Reactions"" Vol. 12, page 173, published from John Wiley & Sons, 1962). However, the acyl migration has never been utilized before the process of this invention for the purpose of introducing the acyl group in to an amino group existing in a particular position of a molecule when said molecule bears many amino groups. In carrying out the process of this invention, the migration of the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl group --COCH(OH)(CH.sub.2).sub.n NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 takes place from the 6-hydroxyl group to the 1-amino group of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin molecule of the starting compound (III) under the basic conditions. When the amino-protecting groups R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 as well as the hydroxyl-protecting group Y which are possibly present in the starting compound (III) are such ones which are cleavable under the basic conditions, for example, an acyl group, a partial or complete removal of such kind of the amino-protecting group and the hydroxyl-protecting group would occur concurrently with the reaction of migrating the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl substituent from the 6-hydroxyl group to the 1-amino group takes place during the basic treatment step of the present process. A typical example of the acyl type of the amino-protecting group R.sub.1, R.sub.2 which is cleavable under the basic conditions is phthaloyl group. A typical example of the acyl type of the hydroxyl-protecting group Y which is cleavable under the basic conditions and which is suitable for the present process is an aminoalkanoyl group of the formula --COCH(OH)(CH.sub.2).sub.n NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 where R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 taken together form a phthaloyl group and n is a whole number of 1 to 4. If the acyl-migration product (IV) so formed still contains the amino-protecting group and/or the hydroxyl-protecting group, such as an acyl group, which are in its nature cleavable under the basic conditions but which are remaining in the acyl-migration product (IV), further heating of the reaction mixture will ensure the complete removal of the residual amino- and hydroxyl-protecting groups from the acyl-migration product (IV) present therein, finally affording the desired product (II). When the starting compound (III) contains a hydroxyl-protecting group Y of the other nature than the acyl or aminoacyl group as well as an amino-protecting group R.sub.1, R.sub.2 of the other nature than the acyl group, such hydroxyl-protecting group and amino-protecting group cannot be removed during the basic treatment step of the process, and it is necessary to further treat the acyl-migration product (IV) in a known manner so as to remove the hydroxyl-protecting group Y and the amino-protecting groups R.sub.1, R.sub.2 remaining in the acyl-migration product (IV). By the removal of the hydroxyl-protecting group or the amino-protecting group is herein meant the conversion of the hydroxyl-protecting group or the amino-protecting group into a hydrogen atom to regenerate the original, free hydroxyl or amino group. For instance, when the hydroxyl-protecting group Y is benzyl group and the amino-masking group R.sub.1 and/or R.sub.2 are or is such as alkyloxycarbonyl, aralkyloxycarbonyl or aryloxycarbonyl, particularly carbobenzoxy group in the starting compound (III), the acyl-migration product (IV) obtained still contains these hydroxyl-protecting group and amino-protecting groups remaining therein and must be further treated so as to remove the hydroxyl-protecting group and amino-protecting groups of these kinds. Procedures for the removal of these hydroxyl-protecting group and amino-protecting group are well known to the skilled in the art. Thus, when the amino-masking group is of an alkyloxycarbonyl group such as t-butoxycarbonyl, a cycloalkyloxycarbonyl group, or aryloxycarbonyl group or an arylidene group such as salicylidene group, the removal of this kind of the amino-masking group may be effected by subjecting to a moderate hydrolysis treatment with a weak acid such as aqueous trifluoro-acetic acid, aqueous acetic acid and diluted aqueous hydrochloric acid. When the amino-masking groups is of an aralkyloxycarbonyl group such as benzyloxycarbonyl, the removal of this sort of the amino-masking group may be effected by subjecting to a hydrogenolysis treatment in the presence of a palladium-carbon catalyst or to a treatment with hydrobromic acid and acetic acid. The o-nitrophenoxyacetyl group as the amino-masking group may be removed by a reductive treatment. When the amino-masking group is phthaloyl group, the removal of phthaloyl group may efficiently be achieved by treating hydrolytically with hydrazine hydrate in solution in ethanol under heating. When the hydroxyl-masking groups is of the acyl type such as alkanoyl and aroyl or ally, isopropylidene, cyclohexylidene, benzylidene, tetrahydropyranyl or methoxycyclohexyl, the removal of this acyl type of the hydroxyl-masking group may be accomplished by mild hydrolysis using diluted hydrochloric acid or aqueous acetic acid. When the hydroxyl-masking group is of such type as benzyl, the removal of this type of the hydroxyl-masking group may be achieved by catalytic hydrogenolysis in the presence of palladium on carbon. The 6-0-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (III) which is used as the starting compound in the process of this invention may be prepared from 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin as the initial material in various ways. Thus, 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin is at first reacted with such a reagent which is commonly used in the prior art of peptide synthesis to introduce a known amino-protecting group into the four amino groups of the initial 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin. The protection or masking of the amino groups of the neamine or ribostamycin may conveniently be effected in a known manner, either by reacting an aldehyde such as acetaldehyde or benzaldehyde with the amino group to convert the latter into Schiff's base type of the group, or by an acylating, carboalkoxylating or carbobenzoxylating the amino groups of the initial material. To this end, for example, 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin may be reacted with acetyl chloride, ethyl chloroformate or benzyl chloroformate to prepare the tetra-N-acetyl derivative, the tetra-N-ethoxycarbonyl derivative or the tetra-N-carbobenzoxy derivative of the neamine or ribostamycin, respectively. The tetra-N-acetyl derivative, tetra-N-ethoxycarbonyl derivative or tetra-N-carbobenzoxy derivative of 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin so prepared may subsequently be treated in a known manner so as to block all or parts of the hydroxyl groups other than the 6-hydroxyl group of said derivative with a known hydroxyl-protecting group such as an acyl, isopropylidene, cyclohexylidene, benzylidene or benzyl. The introduction of the hydroxyl-protecting group into all the hydroxyl groups other than the 6-hydroxyl group of said derivative may be achieved in a similar way to the preparation of tetra-N-carbobenzoxy-3', 4': 2"",3""-dicyclohexylidene-5""-O-(1-methoxycyclohexyl)-ribostamycin, as is described in the ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 25, No. 10, pages 613-616 (1972). The derivative having the protected hydroxyl groups so formed is then esterified by reacting with an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid of the formula (V) ##EQU2## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2 are n are as defined in the above or a functional derivative of this amino acid (V) in an anhydrous organic solvent in the presence of a dehydrating agent, to prepare 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl derivative of 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin in which the neamine or ribostamycin molecule the four amino groups have been masked by the amino-protecting group and the hydroxyl groups also have been protected by the hydroxyl-protecting groups. When this 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl derivative so prepared is then treated in a known manner so as to remove all the amino-protecting groups and, if desired, also all of the hydroxyl-protecting groups, there may be prepared the 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the above formula (III) where R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and Y each is a hydrogen atom. When an organic compound containing both amino group and hydroxyl group in the molecule thereof is intended to be acetylated preferentially at the hydroxyl group, it has been proposed that the protection of the amino group is done by protonating such amino group with a strong organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid so as to protect said amino group, and then the hydroxyl group may be acetylated preferentially using a usual acetylation reagent such as acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride or mixed anhydrides (see J. Bello & J. R. Vinograd; ""Journal of American Chemical Society"" Vol. 78, page 1369 (1956)). Using this known method of protonating the amino group with a strong organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid for the purpose of protecting the amino groups of the initial 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin, the 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3',4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (III) may also be prepared in the following way: The 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin (the free base form) is dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid under ice-cooling and the resulting solution is admixed with ethyl ether to precipitate such a trifluoroacetic acid salt of 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin in which the four amino groups of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin molecule have each been protected with the trifluoroacetic acid molecule. This 3', 4' -dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin trifluoroacetate so formed is then esterified or condensed with an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid of the formula (V) in solution in an organic solvent such as dimethylformamide (DMF), acetone or tetrahydrofuran under ice-cooling and in the presence of a strong acid or a dehydrating agent such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The acid of the formula (V) may conveniently be its functional derivative such as acid halide, azide derivative, active ester or mixed acid anhydride. In the reaction (esterification) of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin trifluoroacetate with the acid of the formula (V), all the hydroxyl groups, including the 6-hydroxyl group, of the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin molecule are unblocked and are O-amino-acylated at random by the acid of the formula (V), so that there is formed a mixture of mono-O-aminoacylated and di-O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamines (in the form of their trifluoroacetate) or a mixture of mono-O-aminoacylated to tetra-O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins (in the form of their trifluoroacetate). When this mixture of the O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin trifluoroacetates is neutralized with a base, there is given the mixed O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamines or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins which contain a 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (III). From the above-mentioned mixed O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamines or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins may be isolated the 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega. -aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (III) by a chromatographic method using, for example, cellulose powder, silica gel or a molecular sieve consisting of a three dimensional dextran network (commercially available under a trade name ""Sephadex G-15"", a product of Pharmacia Co., Sweden). However, the above-mentioned mixed O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamines or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins containing the 6-O-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins as such may be immediately employed as the starting material for the process of this invention, before or after the trifluoroacetic acid is liberated therefrom by neutralizing with a base, as stated above. This is because the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.gamma.-aminoacyl substituent(s) on the other hydroxyl group(s) than the 6-hydroxyl group in these mixed O-aminoacylated product may be regarded as one of the hydroxyl-protecting group Y of the acyl type as stated before. When said mixed O-aminoacylated 3', 4'-dideoxyneamines or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycins are subjected to the action of the basic medium in the process of this invention, there is formed the desired 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (II) as the sole acyl-migration product, because the migration of the (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl substituent from the hydroxyl group to the amino group cannot take place except that from the 6-hydroxyl group to the 1-amino group as long as the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin (III) is concerned with as the starting compound in the present process. The N-aminoacylation product may be precipitated from the reaction mixture by concentration of the latter and filtered out and dissolved in water to prepare an aqueous solution of them at pH of about 8. This solution may then be subjected to a chromatographic separation in a column of CM-Sephadex C-25 (ammonium form) to isolate the desired 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin of the formula (II). Active fractions of the eluate issued from the column and containing the 1-N-((S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl)-3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or -3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin can be detected by an oxidation test with periodic acid, as the presence of an 1-N-acyl substituent is detectable by said test (see ""Tetrahedron Letters"", Vol. 28, pages 2624-2628 (1971)). when the 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin trifluoroacetate is esterified by reacting with an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid derivative of the formula (V), it has been found preferable that 1 molar proportion of the former is brought about into contact with 3-7 molar proportions of the latter at a temperature of 50.degree.-100.degree.C. When the compound of the formula (III) in its trifluoroacetate form is directly subjected to the action of the basic medium which may be a solution of hydrazine in an aqueous ethanol, the migration of the 6-O-(S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-aminoacyl substituent from the 6-hydroxyl group to the 1-amino group takes place concurrently with or after the liberation of the trifluoroacetic acid from the starting compound (III) trifluoroacetate occurs. In this case when the compound (III) trifluoroacetate is directly subjected to the action of the basic medium, therefore, it is virtual that the formation of the product (IV) from the compound (III) trifluoroacetate takes place again via the compound (III) itself formed in site of the reaction mixture. The principal route of producing the final product of the formula (II) starting from 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin (I) according to the present invention may be represented schematically by the following equation: ##SPC9## if the reactions for introducing the amino-protecting groups and the hydroxyl-protecting groups into the initial 3', 4'-dideoxyneamine or 3', 4'-dideoxyribostamycin, the presence of the amino-protecting and hydroxyl-protecting groups in the reagents and in the intermediate products, and the reactions for removing the amino-protecting groups and hydroxyl-protecting groups from the product are omitted from the representation. Among the amino acid of the formula (V) which is used in the process, an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid of the formula (V) where R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 each is not the hydrogen atom may conveniently be an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-N-phthalimido acid or (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-N-carbobenzoxyamino acid. An (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-N-phthalimido acid of the formula ##SPC10## may be prepared by reacting a hydrochloride of an (S)-.alpha.-,.omega.-diamino acid of the formula ##EQU3## wherein m is a whole number of 1 or 2, with a basic copper carbonate in an alkaline aqueous solution to form the copper carboxylate, reacting this copper carboxylate with N-carboethoxyphthalimide to form a copper salt of (S)-.alpha.-amino-.omega.-N-phthalimido acid of the formula ##SPC11## treating this copper salt with diluted hydrochloric acid in methanol to give the corresponding (S)-.alpha.-amino-.omega.-N-phthalimido acid hydrochloride and then reacting this hydrochloride with sodium nitrite in aqueous acetic acid to produce the desired (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-N-phthalimido acid. As the amino acid of the formula (V), it is, of course, possible to use such an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid (V) where R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 each is a hydrogen atom or a known amino-protecting group other than the aforesaid phthaloyl group. For preparation of an (S)-.alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid (V) in which R.sub.1 is a hydrogen atom and R.sub.2 is independently an acyl group, alkyloxycarbonyl group, aralkyloxycarbonyl or aryloxycarbonyl group, for example, by reacting an .alpha.-hydroxy-.omega.-amino acid of the formula ##EQU4## wherein n is a whole number of 1 to 4, with an acyl chloride of the formula EQU R.sub.3 COCl wherein R.sub.3 is a group such that the R.sub.3 CO group forms the group R.sub.2 which is an acyl group such as acetyl or benzoyl, in a dry organic solvent such as methanol, or with an alkyloxycarbonyl, aralkyloxycarbonyl or aryloxycarbonyl chloride of the formula EQU R.sub.4 O--CO--Cl wherein R.sub.4 is a group such that the R.sub.4 O--CO-- group forms the R.sub.2 group which is an alkyloxycarbonyl, aralkyloxycarbonyl or aryloxycarbonyl group such as butoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl or phenoxycarbonyl, in a suitable solvent such as ethyl alcohol or acetone under neutral or basic conditions in a way well known in the prior art of peptide synthesis."
3987164	Method for prevention of pseudomonas aeruginosa infections	The invention involves vaccine preparations comprising cell wall protein component of Pseudomonas aeruginosa as active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The preparations are suitable for parenteral administration for prophylactic treatment of disease caused by infection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The cell wall protein component is characterized by the fact that the same exhibits low toxicity and without type-specificity to the variety of antigens of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
3991051	[(Oxyalkyl)thioacetyl]cephalosporin derivatives	[(Oxyalkyl)thioacetyl] cephalosporin derivatives having the formula ##EQU1## wherein R is hydrogen, lower alkyl, phenyl-lower alkyl, tri(lower alkyl)silyl, a salt forming ion, or the group ##EQU2## R.sub.1 is hydrogen, lower alkyl, phenyl, thienyl or furyl; R.sub.2 and R.sub.6 each is hydrogen or lower alkyl; R.sub.3 and R.sub.5 each is lower alkyl, phenyl or phenyl-lower alkyl; and R.sub.4 is hydrogen, hydroxy, lower alkanoyloxy, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio; are useful as antimicrobial agents. PAC SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to new [(oxyalkyl)thioacetyl]cephalosporin derivatives having the formula ##STR1## R represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, phenyl-lower alkyl, tri(lower alkyl)silyl, a salt forming ion or the group ##STR2## R.sub.1 represents hydrogen, lower alkyl, phenyl, thienyl or furyl; R.sub.2 and R.sub.6 each represents hydrogen or lower alkyl; R.sub.3 and R.sub.5 each represents lower alkyl, phenyl or phenyl-lower alkyl; and R.sub.4 represents hydrogen, hydroxy, lower alkanoyloxy, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio. The especially preferred members within each group are as follows: R is hydrogen, alkali metal, diphenylmethyl or ##STR3## especially hydrogen, pivaloyloxy, sodium or potassium; R.sub.1 is hydrogen or phenyl; R.sub.2 is hydrogen; R.sub.3 is lower alkyl, especially methyl; R.sub.4 is hydrogen or acetoxy; and R.sub.5 is methyl or t-butyl. PAC DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The various groups represented by the symbols have the meanings defined below and these definitions are retained throughout this specification. The lower alkyl groups are the straight and branched chain hydrocarbon groups in the series from methyl to heptyl, the C.sub.1 to C.sub.4 groups and especially methyl and ethyl being generally preferred. The lower alkoxy and lower alkylthio groups are of the same type and the same preferences apply. The lower alkanoyloxy groups represented by R.sub.4 include the acyl radicals of lower fatty acids containing alkyl radicals of the type described above, e.g., acetoxy, propionoxy, butyryloxy, etc., the C.sub.1 to C.sub.4 members being preferred and acetoxy being especially preferred. The phenyl-lower alkyl radicals include a phenyl ring attached to a lower alkyl group of the kind described above like benzyl and phenethyl as well as those containing two phenyl groups such as diphenylmethyl. The salt forming ions represented by R are metal ions, e.g., alkali metal ions such as sodium or potassium, alkaline earth metal ions such as calcium or magnesium or an amine salt ion, e.g., a (lower alkyl)amine like methylamine or triethylamine. The new [(oxyalkyl)thioacetyl)cephalosporin derivatives of this invention are produced by reacting a 7-aminocephalosporanic acid compound, e.g., 7-aminocephalosporanic acid (7-ACA), 7-amino-3-desacetoxycephalosporanic acid (7-ADCA) and other derivatives, having the formula ##STR4## or derivatives thereof with an [(oxyalkyl)thio]acetic acid of the formula ##STR5## or an acid halide, anhydride including mixed anhydrides, activated esters or the like. The derivatives of II referred to include, for example, the triethylamine derivative, benzhydryl ester or the like. The acid halide of III is preferably the chloride. Coupling agents like dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or the like can also be used. A preferred method is the reaction between the 7-aminocephalosporanic acid compound and the [(oxyalkyl)-thio]acetic acid, for example, by dissolving or suspending the latter in an inert organic solvent such as chloroform, tetrahydrofuran, methylene chloride, dioxane, benzene or the like, and adding, at a reduced temperature of about 0.degree. to -20.degree. C about an equimolar amount of the 7-ACA or 7-ADCA compound, preferably in the form of its diphenylmethyl ester, in the presence of an activating compound such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The product of the reaction is then isolated by conventional procedures, e.g., by filtration and concentration or evaporation of the solvent. The diphenylmethyl ester is converted to the free acid, e.g., with trifluoroacetic acid and anisole. Any of the salts can then be produced by conventional treatment, e.g., with potassium ethyl hexanoate, sodium bicarbonate or the like. Another preferred method involves the reaction of a 7-aminocephalosporanic acid compound with the acid halide of the [(oxyalkyl)thio]acetic acid in aqueous alkaline medium. When R is the acyloxymethyl group ##STR6## this group may be introduced into the 7-aminocephalosporanic acid moiety prior to the reaction with the [(oxyalkyl)thio]-acetic acid or derivative by treatment with one to two moles of a halomethyl ester of the formula ##STR7## wherein hal is halogen, preferably chlorine or bromine, in an inert organic solvent such as dimethylformamide, acetone, dioxane, benzene or the like, at about ambient temperature or below. The [(oxyalkyl)thio]acetic acid of formula III is produced by reacting a mercaptoacetic acid of the formula ##STR8## with a halogenated compound of the formula ##STR9## in the presence of a base like triethylamine in a solvent like tetrahydrofuran and then hydrolyzing the ester formed in the process. Alternatively, when the acid halide is used to react with the 7-aminocephalosporanic acid compound, an alkoxide R.sub.3 -OMe (wherein Me is a metal like sodium or potassium) is made to react with a haloester of the formula ##STR10## to obtain the intermediate of the formula ##STR11## Treatment with a base, e.g., an alkali metal hydroxide like potassium hydroxide, converts the ester to a salt which is then converted to the acid chloride with a halogenating agent like oxalyl chloride. Further process details are provided in the illustrative examples. Certain of the compounds of this invention may exist in different optically active forms. The various stereoisomeric forms as well as the racemic mixtures are within the scope of the invention. The compounds of this invention have a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity against both gram positive and gram negative organisms such as Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella schottmuelleri, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus vulgaris, Escherichia coli and Streptococcus pyrogenes. They can be used as antibacterial agents to combat infections due to organisms such as those named above, and in general may be utilized in a manner similar to cephradine and other cephalosporins. For example, a compound of formula I or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof can be used in various animal species in an amount of about 1 to 150 mg/kg, daily, orally or parenterally, in single or two to four divided doses to treat infections of bacterial origin, e.g., 7.0 mg/kg is used in mice. Up to about 600 mg. of a compound of formula I or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof is incorporated in an oral dosage form such as tablets, capsules or elixirs or in an injectable form in a sterile aqueous vehicle prepared according to conventional pharmaceutical practice.
4021305	String culture inoculum	The present invention is concerned with a string culture inoculum comprising a string having stabilized cells of one of ______________________________________ Salmonella typhimurium ATCC 6994 Klebsiella pneumoniae ATCC 10031 Enterobacter cloacae ATCC 11367 Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 Citrobacter freundii ATCC 6750 Proteus vulgaris ATCC 881 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15442 Shigella sonnei ATCC 11060 Serratia marcescens ATCC 14756 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 Staphylococcus epidermidis ATCC 17917 Streptococcus faicalis ATCC 10541 Streptococcus pyogenes ATCC 12202 ______________________________________ dispersed throughout, said string culture inoculum having a sufficient number of stabilized cells adhered thereto to produce at least 10.sup.5 cells per milliliter upon incubation in 3 milliliters of suitable broth at 37.degree. C. for 2 hours. The string culture inocula of the present invention are useful as quality control cultures for positive as well as negative controls in clinical bacteriology procedures and drug susceptibility testing.
4057544	.alpha.-Alkylsulfobenzyl penicillins	Novel penicillins of the formula ##STR1## wherein R is a branched chain alkyl group of from 3 to 14 carbon atoms, and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, are easily absorbed in the blood and tissues through oral administration and show excellent antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, particularly against microorganisms of the genus Pseudomonas, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4065619	7-(.alpha.-Sulfoacylamido)cephalosporins	Novel cephalosporins of the formula, ##STR1## wherein R is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl, aryl or thienyl group, and R' is a group which constitutes together with the adjacent nitrogen atom a 5- or 6-membered ring containing 1 or 2 nitrogen atoms, which are effective particularly against Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as against other Gram negative and positive microorganisms, for example, N-[7-(.alpha.-sulfophenylacetamido)ceph-3-em-3-ylmethyl] pyridinium 4-carboxylate, N-[7-(.alpha.-sulfo-3'-thienylacetamido)ceph-3-em-3-ylmethyl] pyridinium-4-carboxylate, and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Sodium salt of the former is prepared by, e.g. reacting sodium 7-(.alpha.-sulfophenylacetamido) cephalosporanate with pyridine in water.
4072573	Pseudomonas aeruginosa broth	A broth medium for the detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in urine. The medium employs cetyl trimethylammonium bromide to inhibit growth of unwanted organisms that normally give positive results in tests for P. aeruginosa.
4079126	Method of preparing a component consisting of sugar, lipid and protein derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa which possess anti-tumor and interferon inducing properties	This invention relates to a method of preparing original endotoxin protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The invention relates more particularly to a method of preparing original endotoxin protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (hereunder abbreviated as OEP) by processing with either proteolytic enzyme or reductant, or further processing with proteolytic enzyme after it has been treated with reductant. The invention also relates to the original endotoxin protein derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4083959	Therapeutical method for treating infection of mink hemorrhagic pneumonitis	A therapeutic preparation of a bacterial component (designated as OEP and formally as CWP) derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa possesses vaccine activity (the effective component being a lipoprotein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa) or the same containing antibiotics is effective in the treatment of mink hemorrhagic pneumonitis and bovine mastitis due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4096245	Prophylactic preparation for treating mink infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Mink infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa can be prevented by administering to mink a prophylactic preparation in the form of vaccine whose effective component is a compound mainly consisting of protein and a small amount of lipid and sugar derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4132789	7-[2-(2-Imino-4-thiazolin-4-yl)-2-sulfoacetamido]cephalosporins and antibacterial compositions containing them	Novel cephalosporins shown by the general formula: ##STR1## wherein Y is an acyloxy group, a quaternary ammonium group or a group of the formula: --S--R in which R is a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic group, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof have high antibacterial properties against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Serratia marcescens.
4138554	7-[D-.alpha.-(4-Hydroxy-1,5-naphthyridine-3-carboxamido)-.alpha.-phenyl (and p-hydroxyphenyl)acetamido]-3-carbamoyloxymethyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylic acids	7-[D-.alpha.-(4-hydroxy-1,5-naphthyridine-3-carboxyamido)-.alpha.-phenyl (and p-hydroxyphenyl) acetamido]-3-carbamoyloxymethyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylic acids were synthesized and found to have potent antibacterial activity in vitro especially against many strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4157389	Mixed vaccine against infections by pseudomonas aeruginosa	A three component-mixed vaccine against infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa which comprises as the antigens an infection-protective common antigen OEP (Original Endotoxin Protein) obtained from P. aeruginosa, an elastase toxoid obtained from P. aeruginosa and a protease toxoid obtained from P. aeruginosa.
4160023	Toxoids derived from protease and elastase of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and production thereof	Toxoids derived from protease and elastase of Pseudomonas aeruginosa which are effective to prevent infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and production thereof.
4160830	Cephalosporins	A method of combating bacterial infections in humans involves the administration of an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of the formula: ##STR1## wherein R is phenyl or thienyl group, and R' is a group which constitutes together with the adjacent nitrogen atom a pyridinium group that is unsubstituted or substituted by carbamoyl, or a 4'-methyl-5'-(.beta.-hydroxyethyl)-thiazolium or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, to a patient. This method is effective particularly against Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as against other Gram negative and positive microorganisms.
4169140	Antibiotics SF-1771 substance and SF-1771-B substance as well as the production of these substances	A new antibiotic SF-1771 substance is produced by cultivating a new strain, Streptomyces toyocaensis SF-1771, in a liquid culture medium under aerobic conditions. This antibiotic may be isolated from the fermentation broth by treating the broth filtrate with a synthetic adsorbent resin for adsorption of the active compound and eluting the resin with an aqueous alcohol or aqueous acetone, followed by chromatographic purification. SF-1771 substance is a copper-containing antibiotic which shows antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus subtilis. Removal of the copper component from SF-1771 substance by treatment with hydrogen sulfide, an alkali metal sulfide or a copper-chelating agent gives SF-1771-B substance containing no copper component which shows antibacterial activity as high as but a toxicity lower than SF-1771 substance.
4169888	Composition of matter and process	Novel antibiotic CC-1065 producible in a fermentation under controlled conditions using the new microorganism Streptomyces zelensis, NRRL 11,183. This antibiotic is active against Gram-positive bacteria, for example, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Sarcina lutea, and Streptococcus faecalis. It is also active against Gram-negative bacteria, for example, Escherichia coli, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Salmonella pullorum. Thus, antibiotic CC-1065 can be used in various environments to eradicate or control such bacteria.
4182868	7-Methoxycephalosporin derivatives	A compound of the formula: ##STR1## wherein R.sup.2 is hydrogen or a halogen and R.sup.3 stands for methyl, acetoxymethyl, carbamoyloxymethyl, an alkoxymethyl, an alkylthiomethyl, 2-carboxy-1-ethenyl, or a heterocyclic thiomethyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is found to have a broad antimicrobial spectrum and, in particular, effective against Gram-negative bacteria including Escherichia coli, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescense as well as Gram-positive ones including antibiotic resistant strains. Thus, these compounds may be used for antimicrobial agents in therapeutical purposes.
4198504	[3-(Pyridinium)-7-(naphthyiridinyl carbonylamino)acetamido]cephalosporanic acid derivatives	7-[.alpha.-(4-hydroxy-1,5-naphthyridine-3-carboxamido)-.alpha.-phenyl or thienyl (and substituted phenyl) acetamido]-3-(pyridiniummethyl)-3-cephem-4-carboxylates having on the pyridine ring an acidic group which is preferably --COOH or --SO.sub.3 H and also, if desired, having one or two methylene groups together with or without a hetero atom between the pyridine ring and the acidic group were synthesized and found to have potent antibacterial activity in vitro especially against many strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and also high solubility in water.
4199444	Process for decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater	A process of decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater comprising treating wastewater effluent from a pulp or paper mill with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa under aerobic conditions.
4199602	Control of mastitis and compositions therefor	"Neutral to mildly acidic externally-applied mastitis control agents based upon antimicrobial nitroalkanols (e.g. 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol) can be made more effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa through ""potentiation"" with an aminocarboxylic-type chelating agent. The chelating agent is believed to improve cell-wall permeability, even at a pH well below 7."
4217450	Imidazoledicarboxylic acid substituted cephalosporin derivatives	Compounds having the following formula: ##STR1## wherein X is a radical selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, hydroxy, mercapto, methyl and amino. PA1 Y is a radical selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and hydroxy, and PA1 A is an organic compound residue selected from the group consisting of having the formula: ##STR2## wherein Z is a radical selected from the group consisting hydrogen, acyloxy, carbamoyloxy, (heteroaromatic) thio, pyridinium, quinolinium and picolinium; and salts thereof, are useful as anti-bacterial agents active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4229348	Penicillanic acid derivatives	Penicillanic acid derivatives which have an excellent antibacterial action particularly against bacteria belonging to family Pseudomonas aeruginosa and are represented by the formula ##STR1## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, and R.sub.3 and n are as defined above, and salts thereof; and a process for preparing the same are disclosed.
4237051	Stereospecific production of 6- or 7-carbon-substituted-.beta.-lactams	"Reaction of 6- or 7-diazo-.beta.-lactams with allylic halides in the presence of a catalytic amount of metallic copper or a copper salt affords 6- or 7-carbon-substituted-.beta.-lactams with the desired stereochemical configuration at the 6- or 7-position. Subsequent reduction with a trialkyl stannane affords useful intermediates for further syntheses affording 6- or 7-carbon-substituted-.beta.-lactams. The present invention relates to a process for the production of 6- or 7-carbon-substituted-.beta.-lactams having the desired stereochemical configuration at the 6- or 7-position. More particularly, this invention provides a process for the preparation of a .beta.-lactam of the formula ##STR1## wherein R.sub.1 is cyano or COOR.sub.2 wherein R.sub.2 is a readily removable ester-forming moiety, hydrogen or an alkali-metal cation; PA0 R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 are independently hydrogen, lower alkyl, aryl or aralkyl; PA0 Z is a group of the formula ##STR2## wherein R.sub.5 is hydrogen, lower alkyl or aralkyl; and the dotted line indicates the optional presence of a double bond; which comprises PA1 (1) reacting a diazo-.beta.-lactam of the formula ##STR3## wherein Y is a sulfur or an oxygenated sulfur atom and Z, R.sub.1, R.sub.3, and R.sub.4 are as hereinbefore defined; with an allyl halide of the formula ##STR4## wherein R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 are as hereinbefore defined and PA0 X is bromo or iodo; in the presence of a catalytic amount of metallic copper or a copper salt; and where Y is an oxygenated sulfur atom, followed by transformation of the resultant oxygenated sulfur intermediate to a compound wherein Y is a sulfur atom; and (2) subjecting the resultant intermediate of the formula ##STR5## wherein X, Z, R.sub.1, R.sub.3, and R.sub.4 are as hereinabove defined, to reduction with a trialkyl stannane to afford the compound of formula I. The lower alkyl groups referred to contain 1 to 6 carbon atoms and are exemplified by methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl and the corresponding branched-chain isomers thereof. The lower alkoxy groups referred to above likewise contain 1 to 6 carbon atoms and are exemplified by methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, and the like. The term ""aryl"" as used herein refers to phenyl substituted by one or more substituent groups selected from among chloro, bromo, fluoro, lower alkyl, hydroxy, nitro, amino, aminomethyl, lower monoalkylamino, lower dialkylamino, lower alkoxy and carboxy. Such aryl groups represented by R.sub.1 can be, for example, 4-hydroxyphenyl, 3,4-dichlorophenyl, 2,6-dimethoxyphenyl, 4-methylphenyl, 2-fluorophenyl, 4-carboxyphenyl, 3-nitrophenyl, 4-aminophenyl, 3-aminophenyl, 4-dimethylaminophenyl, 4-aminomethylphenyl and 4-ethoxyphenyl. The term ""aralkyl"" encompasses aryl-substituted lower alkyl groups such as benzyl, phenethyl, p-fluorobenzyl, o-tolylethyl and m-hydroxy-phenethyl. The process of this invention initially involves the reaction of a diazo-.beta.-lactam of formula II and the allyl halide of formula III in the presence of a catalytic amount of metallic copper or a copper salt to induce the decomposition of the diazo-.beta.-lactam at temperatures of about 0.degree.-50.degree. C. to provide the intermediate of formula IV. The diazo-.beta.-lactam utilizable in this step of the invention may be any type of readily removable ester-blocked acid, i.e., the compound of formula II wherein R.sub.1 is COOR.sub.2 or a nitrile, i.e., the compound of formula II wherein R.sub.1 is cyano. Preferably, benzyl or benzhydryl esters are employed in the reaction wherein R.sub.1 is COOR.sub.2. The starting materials of formula II wherein Y is oxygenated sulfur are preferred due to the stability of the starting compound. However, the reaction using the equivalent sulfide also proceeds with good yields and avoids the need for a subsequent deoxygenation step. The allyl halides of formula III utilizable in the present invention are those wherein the halogen is iodine or bromine with iodine being most particularly preferred. The allyl halide of formula III may be substituted by lower alkyl, aryl or aralkyl groups. Those compounds wherein R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 are methyl or phenyl are preferred. The copper compound utilizable as a catalyst for this step of the instant invention may be almost any copper salt or finely divided elemental copper. Preferably, 1-10 mole percent of the copper or copper salt is utilized. The most preferred catalysts are cuprous chloride and copper (II)-2,4-pentanedioate. In order to maximize the yield for this step of the instant invention, it is preferable to use a large excess of the allyl halide of formula III. Most preferably, allyl bromide or allyl iodide is used as the reaction medium. Substituted allyl halides of formula III are preferably diluted with a non-polar co-solvent such as methylene chloride. Polar solvents may also be used, e.g., dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide or acetonitrile, but these provide poorer yields. The reaction is preferably carried out at room temperature; however, depending on the nature of the starting materials, the reaction temperatures may range from about 0.degree. to 50.degree. C. Occasionally, warming to about 40.degree. C. is utilized to initiate the reaction which is then continued without further heating. The stereochemistry at C-6 or C-7 of the intermediate of formula IV is generally a mixture of alpha and beta compounds. Generally, use of the bromides gives a higher ratio of beta to alpha compounds, i.e., 5 to 6:1. Use of the iodides gives more approximately equal amounts of the alpha and beta isomers. The reduction of step 2 to afford the cis product of formula I is accomplished using trialkyl stannane (trialkyl tin hydride). Preferably, tri-n-butyl stannane is utilized. The intermediate of formula IV is heated at about 60.degree.-100.degree. C. with 1-2 equivalents of the tin hydride in an inert solvent. Preferred solvents are tetrahydrofuran, benzene and toluene. Typically, the product is separated by chromatography in yields of greater than 80%. The compounds of formula II wherein Y is an oxygenated sulfur atom may be obtained from the corresponding compounds wherein Y is sulfur by any of the conventional oxidation procedures, e.g., ozone, iodobenzene dichloride in aqueous pyridine, etc. An oxygenated sulfur penicillin compound, i.e., wherein Z is ##STR6## may then be converted to the corresponding cephalosporin, i.e., wherein Y is S and Z is ##STR7## by various literature methods. See, for instance, Flynn, ""Cephalosporins and Penicillins"", Academic Press, pp. 193-199 and 670-673 (1972). By such methods benzyl 6.beta.-allyl-6.alpha.-bromopenicillanate-1.beta.-oxide may be converted to benzyl 7.beta.-allyl-6.alpha.-bromo-3-methyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylate. The sulfoxide compound is also particularly useful wherein it is desired to convert a mixture of 2- and 3-cephem compounds to a pure 3-cephem compound. The 6- or 7-diazo starting materials of formula II are preparable via a variety of literature methods or variations thereof. A preferred method involves degradation of the penicillin or cephalosporin side chain via the N-nitroso derivative as described by Hausler and Sigg, Helv. Chim. Acta., 1327 (1967); and Sheehan, J. Org. Chem., 39, 1444 (1974). This process involves treatment of the penicillin or cephalosporin, e.g., benzylpenicillin benzyl ester or benzhydryl ester, to form the N-nitroso derivative, followed by decomposition of the nitroso amide side chain with methylene chloride-pyridine or methylene chloride at about 40.degree. C. to afford the diazo compound. An improvement of this process, omitting the pyridine and allowing the reaction to proceed at room temperature in a polar solvent, e.g., dimethylsulfoxide or dimethylformamide, affords a cleaner reaction and better conversion, i.e., >90%. This reaction sequence may be represented by the following scheme: ##STR8## wherein Y, Z and R.sub.1 are as hereinbefore defined. Preferable by this route are the following: PA0 benzyl 6-diazopenicillanate; PA0 benzhydryl 6-diazopenicillanate; PA0 6-diazopenicillanonitrile; and PA0 benzyl 7-diazo-3-methylcephalosporanate. Another modification of the decomposition step in the preparation of the starting materials of formula II is to utilize triphenylphosphine and water in place of the methylene chloride and pyridine according to the method of Sheehan, J. Org. Chem., 42, 1012 ( 1977) to afford the hydrazone of the formula: ##STR9## Oxidation of this hydrazone by the method of U.S. Pat. No. 3,880,837 affords the desired diazo compound. This route is particularly preferred for the cephalosporin starting materials of this invention. Preparable by this route are the following: PA0 benzhydryl 7-diazo-3-methylcephalosporinate; PA0 benzhydryl 7-diazo-3-acetoxymethylcephalosporinate; and PA0 benzhydryl 6-diazopenicillanate. An additional method for preparing the 6- or 7-diazo compounds of formula II involves diazotisation of the corresponding amino compounds using nitrous acid according to the procedure originally carried out by Hausler and Sigg, Helv. Chim. Acta., 1327 (1967) and further delineated in J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 94, 1408 (1972) and J. Org. Chem., 41, 1578 (1976). Once prepared, the compounds of formula I are utilizable to prepare various 6- or 7-substituted-.beta.-lactams having useful antimicrobial activity, many of which are known in the art. For instance, ozonolysis of 6.beta.-(allyl)penicillanonitrile, benzyl 6.beta.-(allyl)penicillanate or benzhydryl 6.beta.-allylpenicillanate affords 6.beta.-(formylmethyl)-penicillanonitrile, benzyl 6.beta.-(formylmethyl)penicillanate and benzhydryl 6.beta.-(formylmethyl)penicillanate, respectively. This ozonolysis is carried out according to standard methodology. The aldehyde obtained by the ozonolysis described in the preceding paragraph may then be subjected to reduction utilizing a mild reducing agent such as sodium borohydride to afford the corresponding alcohol. For instance, obtainable by this reaction is 6.beta.-(2-hydroxyethyl)penicillanonitrile, benzyl 6.beta.-(2-hydroxyethyl)penicillanate and benzhydryl 6.beta.-(2-hydroxyethyl)penicillanate. The ester group of the preceding two compounds may, of course, be removed utilizing standard hydrogenolysis typically with a palladium catalyst to afford the resulting free acids. Workup with a weak base, e.g., potassium carbonate or sodium carbonate, will afford the potassium or sodium salts, e.g., potassium 6.beta.-(2-hydroxyethyl)penicillanate or sodium 6.beta.-(2-hydroxyethyl)penicillanate. Oxidation of the aldehydes obtainable by the ozonolysis procedure affords the corresponding carboxylic acids. For instance, benzhydryl 6.beta.-(formylmethyl)penicillanate treated with chromic acid in acetone and water affords benzhydryl 6.beta.-(carboxymethyl)penicillanate. Reaction of the foregoing carboxylic acids with suitable azides provides various homo-penicillanates. For instance, benzhydryl 6.beta.-(carboxymethyl)penicillanate treated with diphenylphosphoryl azide and triethylamine at a reaction temperature of about 80.degree. C. according to the method of Ninomiya, et. al., Chem. Pharm. Bull. Japan, 22, 1398 (1974), affords benzhydryl 6.beta.-(carbonylaminomethyl)penicillanate which is typically not isolated. Treatment of this intermediate with the desired acid or alcohol provides homopenicillanates which then may be optionally deblocked. Obtainable in this method are potassium 6.beta.-(phenylacetamidomethyl)penicillanate and potassium 6.beta.-(ethoxycarbonylaminomethyl)penicillanate. Treatment of benzhydryl 6.beta.-(carbonylaminomethyl)penicillanate with trichloroethanol followed by a zinc/acetic acid reduction affords benzhydryl 6.beta.-(aminomethyl)penicillanate. Conventional deblocking of this compound then affords 6.beta.-(aminomethyl)penicillanic acid. Several of the foregoing compounds are described by Sheehan, et. al. as having useful and interesting antimicrobial activity in German Pat. Nos. 2,416,492 and 2,643,085. However, 6.beta.-(aminomethyl)penicillanic acid has not heretofore been described in any publication and is therefore a novel compound. The 6.beta.-(aminomethyl)penicillanic acid produced by the process of this invention possesses antibacterial activity. Additionally, it is a penicillinase inhibitor which may be used concomitantly with other penicillin-type antibiotics in infection therapy. Thus, when tested in standardized microbiological assays, this compound exhibits activity vis-a-vis such organisms as Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella, Bacillus subtilis, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa at test levels of 0.1 to 100 .mu.cg/ml. Thus, as antibacterial agents this compound is conventionally formulated for oral, intramuscular, intravenous or topical therapy. Thus, the present invention includes within its scope pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antibacterially effective amount of the novel 6.beta.-(aminomethyl)penicillanic acid with a compatible pharmaceutical carrier therefor, and a method of using such compositions for the treatment of microbial infections. The dosage administered of this compound is dependent upon the age and weight of the animal species being treated, the mode of administration, and the type and severity of bacterial infection being prevented or reduced. Typically, the dosage administered per day will be in the range of 100-5000 mg with 500-1000 mg being preferred. For oral administration, this compound may be formulated in the form of tablets, capsules, elixirs or the like. For parenteral administration it may be formulated into solutions or suspensions for intramuscular injection. Topical formulations include creams, ointments, gels and the like."
4259444	Microorganisms having multiple compatible degradative energy-generating plasmids and preparation thereof	Unique microorganisms have been developed by the application of genetic engineering techniques. These microorganisms contain at least two stable (compatible) energy-generating plasmids, these plasmids specifying separate degradative pathways. The techniques for preparing such multi-plasmid strains from bacteria of the genus Pseudomonas are described. Living cultures of two strains of Pseudomonas (P. aeruginosa [NRRL B-5472] and P. putida [NRRL B-5473]) have been deposited with the United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Northern Marketing and Nutrient Research Division, Peoria, Ill. The P. aeruginosa NRRL B-5472 was derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain 1c by the genetic transfer thereto, and containment therein, of camphor, octane, salicylate and naphthalene degradative pathways in the form of plasmids. The P. putida NRRL B-5473 was derived from Pseudomonas putida strain PpG1 by genetic transfer thereto, and containment therein, of camphor, salicylate and naphthalene degradative pathways and drug resistance factor RP-1, all in the form of plasmids.
4266035	Process for decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater and microorganism capable of same	A process of decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater comprising treating wastewater effluent from a pulp or paper mill with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa under aerobic conditions; and the novel microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4267112	Antibiotic U-58,431	Novel antibiotic U-58,431 producible in a fermentation under controlled conditions using a biologically pure culture of the microorganism Streptomyces helicus Dietz and Li sp. n., NRRL 11461. This antibiotic is active against various Gram-positive bacteria, for example, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus hemolyticus, and Streptococcus faecalis. It is also active against various Gram-negative bacteria, for example, Escherichia coli, Proteus vulgaris, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Salmonella schottmuelleri. It has strong activity against Diplococcus pneumoniae. Thus, antibiotic U-58,431 can be used in various environments to eradicate or control such bacteria.
4269942	Process for preparing acyl-CoA synthetase LCF-18	Acyl-CoA synthetase, having a high activity to C.sub.16 -C.sub.18 long chain fatty acids, is obtained by cultivating Pseudomonas aeruginosa IFO 3919. Pseudomonas aeruginosa IFO 3919 can produce acyl-CoA synthetase LCF-18 in large quantities, and the acyl-CoA synthetase LCF-18 produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa IFO 3919 is very stable in storage.
4285936	Method for producing a vaccine against bacterial infections caused by pseudomonas aeruginosa	A method for isolating a non toxic, high molecular weight polysaccharide igen from the crude slime of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa culture, and a method for inducing immunity in a host to said live organisms is described. The slime is initially prepared for the isolation procedure by separating the bacterial cells from the slime and dissolving the slime in a phosphate buffer solution. Dissolved contaminating nucleic acids are then precipitated and separated from solution. A lipid A portion of the contaminating lipopolysaccharide constituent is then removed and precipitated by acetic acid hydrolysis, and the remaining lipids present are extracted with chloroform. Nearly all of the residual nucleic acids are then removed by digestion with nucleases, and the remaining protein extracted with phenol. The aqueous and phenol layers are then separated, and the aqueous layer applied to a gel filter to isolate the antigen by column chromatography. The antigen appears in the void volume. A vaccine containing the polysaccharide antigen of this invention has been successfully tested and found to be non toxic and highly effective in inducing an immune response to the organism in a host.
4288545	Microbiological process for removing oleaginous material from wastewater and microbiological combination capable of same	A process for removing oleaginous materials containing those of animal origin from wastewater comprising treating wastewater containing oleaginous material with a microbial combination of: PA1 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA1 (b) at least one of: PA2 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA2 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and the microbial combination of: PA1 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA1 (b) at least one of: PA2 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA2 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2.
4288590	7 -[D.alpha.-(4-Hydroxy-1,5-naphthyridine-3-carboxamido)-.alpha.-arylacetam ido]-3-(N,N-dimethyl-aminomethylpyridinium) methyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylates	7-[D-.alpha.-(4-Hydroxy-1,5-naphthyridine-3-carboxamido)-.alpha.-phenyl (and thienyl and substituted phenyl) acetamido]-3-(2-, 3- or 4-N,N-dimethylaminomethyl-pyridinium)methyl-3-cephem-4-carboxylates were synthesized and found to have potent antibacterial activity in vitro especially against many strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4347314	Process for the preparation of penicillin derivatives	A process for the preparation of .alpha.-carboxy, 6, .alpha.-methoxy penicillin derivatives by the enzymatic hydrolysis of an esterified derivative. The process is for the preparation of a compound of formula (I): ##STR1## wherein R represents phenyl or 2- or 3-thienyl, which process comprises subjecting a compound of formula (IV): ##STR2## where R.sup.1 is an aryl radical, to the action of an enzyme selected from bromelain, papain, gelatase, trypsin, pancreatin or an esterase-producing strain of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Aspergillus niger or Saccharomyces sp.
4349626	Method of detecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections utilizing selected ketone and/or sulfur metabolites	A novel method of detecting and diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections by monitoring sample headspace concentrations of selected methyl ketones, particularly 2-nonanone and 2-undecanone. In an alternate embodiment, such diagnosis may be made by monitoring the headspace concentration of methyl mercaptan to diagnose the extent of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Expeditious methods for increasing such concentrations are also disclosed which include additions of selected nutrients to incubated sample mixtures.
4350770	Microbiological process for removing oleaginous material from wastewater and microbiological combination capable of same	A process for removing oleaginous materials containing those of animal origin from wastewater comprising treating wastewater containing oleaginous material with a microbial combination of: PA0 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA0 (b) at least one of: PA1 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA1 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and the microbial combination of: PA0 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA0 (b) at least one of: PA1 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA1 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2.
4351830	Polymeric compound, MF-300, with protective activity against bacterial infections and its preparation	A new polymeric compound, MF-300, is provided, which possesses a specific protective activity against bacterial infections caused particularly by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compound is derived from the reaction of ribostamycin with crotonoyl chloride followed by concentration of the reaction product and by subsequent recovery therefrom of a fraction having a range of molecular weights of 10,000.about.100,000 when measured by ultrafiltration method.
4374200	Broad host range small plasmid rings as cloning vehicles	The present invention relates to novel, broad bacterial host range small plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid rings which serve as cloning vehicles for DNA fragments, particularly those separated from other plasmid rings or from chromosones, recombined with the small plasmid rings and to the processes for recombining the plasmid rings and to processes for transferring them between host bacteria. In particular, the present invention relates to the aggregate plasmid ring RP1/pRO1600, to pRO1600 and plasmid ring derivatives thereof, particularly including pRO1601; pRO1613 and pRO1614, all of which are carried for reference purposes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15692 (also known as strain PAO1c) and are on deposit at the Northern Regional Research Laboratories (NRRL) of the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture at Peoria, Ill. The plasmid ring RP1 (also known as R1822) is deposited in Pseudomonas aeruginosa NRRL-B-12123 (and is a known plasmid ring). The pRO1600 portion of the aggregate is a new plasmid ring. The novel small plasmid rings are particularly useful for recombinant genetic manipulation wherein the DNA fragments are introduced into the plasmid rings to produce useful, cloneable characteristics in the host bacterium, particularly chemical generating characteristics.
4376164	Process for preparing broad host range small plasmid rings as cloning vehicles	The present invention relates to novel, broad bacterial host range small plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid rings which serve as cloning vehicles for DNA fragments, particularly those separated from other plasmid rings or from chromosones, recombined with the small plasmid rings and to the processes for recombining the plasmid rings and to processes for transferring them between host bacteria. In particular, the present invention relates to the aggregate plasmid ring RP1/pRO1600, to pRO1600 and plasmid ring derivatives thereof, particularly including pRO1601; pRO1613 and pRO1614, all of which are carried for reference purposes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15692 (also known as strain PAO1c) and are on deposit at the Northern Regional Research Laboratories (NRRL) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture at Peoria, Il. The plasmid ring RP1 (also known as R1822) is deposited in Pseudomonas aeruginosa NRRL-B-12123 (and is a known plasmid ring). The pRO1600 portion of the aggregate is a new plasmid ring. The novel small plasmid rings are particularly useful for recombinant genetic manipulation wherein the DNA fragments are introduced into the plasmid rings to produce useful, cloneable characteristics in the host bacterium, particularly chemical generating characteristics.
4382888	Tryptophan derivative and process for production thereof	N-(6-Deoxy-L-talosyloxyhydroxyphosphenyl)-L-leucyl-L-tryptophan which is novel compound having an inhibitory activity against a metallo proteinases produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and a process for biochemically producing the compound according to the genus Streptomyces.
4418194	DNA Fragments for forming plasmids	The present invention relates to novel, broad bacterial host range small plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid rings which serve as cloning vehicles for DNA fragments, particularly those separated from other plasmid rings or from chromosones, recombined with the small plasmid rings and to the processes for recombining the plasmid rings and to processes for transferring them between host bacteria. In particular, the present invention relates to the aggregate plasmid ring RP1/pRO1600, to pRO1600 and plasmid ring derivatives thereof, particularly including pRO1601; pRO1613 and pRO1614, all of which are carried for reference purposes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15692 (also known as strain PAO1c) and are on deposit at the Northern Regional Research Laboratories (NRRL) of the United States Department of Agriculture at Peoria, Ill. The plasmid ring RP1 (also known as R1822) is deposited in Pseudomonas aeruginosa NRRL-B-12123 (and is a known plasmid ring). The pRO1600 portion of the aggregate is a new plasmid ring. The novel small plasmid rings are particularly useful for recombinant genetic manipulation wherein the DNA fragments are introduced into the plasmid rings to produce useful, cloneable characteristics in the host bacterium, particularly chemical generating characteristics.
4423215	Method of preparing sodium salts of imidazoledicarboxylic acid substituted cephalosporin derivatives	A method of preparing sodium salts of an imidazoledicarboxylic acid derivative of a substituted cephalosporin represented by the general formula of ##STR1## where X is a radical selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, alkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkoxy, aryloxy, aralkyloxy, mercapto, alkylthio, arylthio, aralkylthio, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, aralkylsulfonyl, alkylsulfinyl, arylsulfinyl, aralkylsulfinyl, amino, mono- or dialkylamino, mono- or diarylamino, mono- or diaralkylamino, acylamino, sulfonic acid, nitro or heterocyclic group; PA0 and where R is a radical selected from hydrogen, an organic radical such as alkyl, aryl or aralkyl or a heterocyclic group, said organic radical and heterocyclic group being optionally substituted; PA0 said method comprising reacting a compound represented by the following formula: ##STR2## with 4-pyridineethanesulfonic acid in an aqueous solution of sodium iodide and subsequently recovering the salt. The compounds are useful in the treatment of bacterial infections, particularly Pseudomonas aeruginosa, in man and other animals.
4444888	Microorganism for decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater	A process of decolorizing pulp and paper mill wastewater comprising treating wastewater effluent from a pulp or paper mill with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa under aerobic conditions; and the novel microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4451399	Imidazolecarboxylic acid derivatives	The invention relates to imidazolecarboxylic acid derivatives of penicillins and cephalosporins, which are especially useful for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa-derived infections in humans and other animals.
4469683	"""3""""-Epistreptomycin and its dihydro derivative, pharmaceutical compositions and production of the same"""	"New semi-synthetic antibiotics, 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin are now provided, which are useful as antibacterial agents. 3""-Epidihydrostreptomycin is produced by a process comprising hydrolyzing an appropriately N,O-protected 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl-3""-epidihydrostreptomycin which is prepared by skilled introduction of amino-protecting groups and hydroxyl-protecting groups of appropriately selected natures into dihydrostreptomycin and intermolecular condensation of a particular pair of amino-protecting and hydroxyl-protecting groups so introduced. 3""-Epistreptomycin is produced by a process comprising oxidizing the 3'-hydroxymethyl group of an appropriately N,O-protected 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin as prepared by skilled introduction of amino-protecting groups and hydroxyl-protecting groups of appropriately selected natures, and then removing the remaining protective groups from the resultant N,O-protected 3""-epistreptomycin obtained as the oxidation product. PAC SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to new streptomycin derivatives which are new substances and useful as antibacterial agents. More particularly, this invention relates to 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin and also to processes for the production of these new streptomycin derivatives. PAC BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Streptomycin is a well known antibiotic which was discovered by Wasksman. Streptomycin, and dihydrostreptomycin which is obtained by reduction of the aldehyde group of streptomycin are widely used as medicine in therapeutic treatment of bacterial infections. However, as streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin become widely used, such strains of bacteria resistant to these antibiotics have occurred, and owing to this the therapeutic effects of streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin have considerably been reduced. The occurrence of such resistant bacteria is generally observed not only with the antibiotics of streptomycin type but also with other antibiotics such as kanamycins, lividomycins and the like. These historical facts are detailed in the general remarks as reported by Hamao Umezawa who is one of the present inventors and is a first discoverer of the mechanism of resistance of bacteria against aminoglycosidic antibiotics (H. Umezawa; ""Advances in Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biochemistry"" Vol. 30, page 183, Academic Press 1974). With the streptomycins, it has been found that the hydroxyl group at 3""-position of the molecule of streptomycins can be adenylated by such resistant bacteria capable of producing streptomycin adenyl-transferase and thereby 3""-O-adenylstreptomycins are formed, with a consequence that streptomycins can be inactivated in respect of their antibacterial effects (Umezawa et al.; ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 21, page 81 (1968)). In these circumstances, we, the present inventors, have conducted studies in an attempt to remove the 3""-hydroxyl group from the streptomycin molecule and thereby to eliminate the possibility of inactivation of streptomycin which would occur due to the adenylation of the 3""-hydroxyl group of streptomycin, so that there was provided a new derivative of streptomycin which would be active also against the bacteria resistant to streptomycin. As a result of our study, we succeeded in synthesizing 3""-deoxydihydrostreptomycin from streptomycin, and we found that this 3""-deoxydihydrostreptomycin is active against the resistant bacteria (see Japanese patent application prepublication ""Kokai"" No. 105154/77; and ""Journal of Antibiotics"" Vol. 29, page 978 (1976)). We have made our further study and have now succeeded in effecting the epimerization of the 3""-hydroxyl group of streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin, and we have now found that the 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin now newly synthetized are active against a variety of streptomycin-resistant bacteria. Thus, we have accomplished this invention. PAC DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to a first embodiment of this invention, therefore, there are provided as new compounds a 3""-epistreptomycin compound represented by the general formula ##STR1## wherein R denotes a hydroxymethyl group--CH.sub.2 OH for 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin and R denotes an aldehyde group --CHO for 3""-epistreptomycin, and a pharmaceutically acceptable acid-addition salt thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable acid-addition salt of the new compound of the above general formula (I) includes a salt of 3""-epistreptomycin or 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin with an ordinary, non-toxic acid such as an inorganic acid, for example, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid and the like, as well as an organic acid, for example, acetic acid, malonic acid, citric acid and the like. 3""-Epistreptomycin tri-hydrochloride mono-hydrate according to this invention is in the form of a colorless, solid substrance which shows a specific optical rotation [.alpha.].sub.D.sup.23 -80.degree. (c 1, water) but shows no definite melting point. Its elemental analysis (Found: C 35.22, H 6.51, N 13.58%) was coincident with the theoretical value of the empirical formula C.sub.21 H.sub.39 N.sub.7 O.sub.12. 3HCl.H.sub.2 O (Calculated: C 35.58, H 6.26, N 13.83%). 3""-Epidihydrostreptomycin 3/2 carbonate according to this invention is in the form of a colorless, solid substance which shows a specific optical rotation [.alpha.].sub.D.sup.23 -79.degree. (c 0.9, water) but shows no definite melting point. Its elemental analysis (Found: C 39.63, H 6.47, N 14.33%) was coincident with the theoretical value of the empirical formula (C.sub.21 H.sub.41 N.sub.7 O.sub.12.3/2H.sub.2 CO.sub.3) (Calculated: C 39.94, H 6.55, N 14.49%). The antibacterial activities of 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin are demonstrated in Table 1 below, which exhibits the minimum inhibitory concentrations (mcg/ml) of the new compounds of this invention as estimated according to a standard serial dilution method using a nutrient agar medium as the incubation medium, the incubation being made at 37.degree. C. for 17 hours. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (mcg/ml) of streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin were also estimated in the same manner as above for the comparison purpose and are shown in Table 1 below. As shown in Table 1, the new compounds of the formula (I) according to this invention exhibit antibacterial spectra similar to those of the comparative dihydrostreptomycin and show remarkably improved antibacterial activities against gram-negative bacteria, especially against various resistant strains of Escherichia coli. TABLE 1 __________________________________________________________________________ MIC (mcg/ml) Dihydro- 3""-Epidihydro- 3""-Epi- streptomycin Streptomycin Test organism streptomycin streptomycin (comparative) (comparative) __________________________________________________________________________ Staphylococcus aureus 209P 3.12 3.12 3.12 3.12 Staphylococcus aureus AP01 3.12 3.12 1.56 3.12 Sarcia lutea PCI 1001 1.56 3.12 1.56 1.56 Bacillus subtilis NRRL B558 3.12 1.56 3.12 0.78 Salmonella typhi T-63 0.78 1.56 25 25 Escherichia coli K-12 1.56 1.56 1.56 1.56 Escherichia coli K-12 R5 6.25 6.25 >100 >100 Escherichia coli K-12 ML1629 1.56 3.12 100 >100 Escherichia coli K-12 ML1630 3.12 3.12 >100 >100 Escherichia coli K-12 ML1630 25 25 >100 >100 R8125 Escherichia coli W677 1.56 1.56 0.78 1.56 Escherichia coli JR66/W677 12.5 12.5 >100 >100 Escherichia coli C600 R135 3.12 3.12 50 50 Providencia sp. pv16 6.25 3.12 25 25 Pseudomonas aeruginosa 33 3.12 6.25 1.56 3.12 Pseudomonas aeruginosa No. 12 25 25 25 25 Pseudomonas aeruginosa 13--13 50 50 >100 >100 Mycobacterium smegmatis 607 0.78 1.56 0.78 0.78 __________________________________________________________________________ The new compounds of this invention, namely 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin can be administered to living animals, including men, safely as much as the known streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin for therapeutical treatment of bacterial infections, because they are of low toxicity as will be shown by the fact that when acute toxicity of 3""-epistreptomycin or 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin was estimated by intravenous injection of these compounds in groups of mice (ICR mice, adult, female, body weight 20 g..+-.0.5 g. six in each group), all the treated mice survived for more than 14 days after the new compound of this invention was administered intravenously into each mouse at a dosage of 4 mg/kg (LD.sub.50 more than 200 mg/kg). Processes for the production of the new compounds of the formula (I) according to this invention are described in the following. Briefly, 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin of this invention is produced starting from the known dihydrostreptomycin, and 3""-epistreptomycin of this invention is produced form the 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin now newly synthetized. Firstly, a summary of a process for the production of 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin is illustrated by the following first flow diagram which shows the production of 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin from dihydrostreptomycin via about eight stages. In the first flow diagram and also in the another flow diagrams shown later, such intermolecular sites of the compound which just have undergone chemical change or modification through the chemical reaction at a particular stage of the concerned process are preferentially represented in the respective flow diagrams, so that such substituent or substituents which is or are existing in the compound in one particular stage but is or are remaining unchanged in the compound in the next stage (that is, the stage just following said particular stage) are sometimes omitted from being shown in the next stage of the flow diagram, for sake of simplicity. In the following flow diagrams, Ac denotes an acetyl group. ##STR2## Now, a process of producing 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin is described with reference to the respective stages of the process shown in the first flow diagram as above and is fully illustrated by Example 1 given later. Dihydrostreptomycin which is used as the starting substance in this process is the compound represented by the formula (1) in the first flow diagram. To synthetize 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin of this invention with starting from dihydrostreptomycin, at first, the 2""-methylamino group of the compound of the formula (1) is selectively protected in Stage A of the process by a known aminoprotecting group such as an aralkyloxycarbonyl group, preferably benzyloxycarbonyl group. To this end, the starting compound of the formula (1) may preferably be reacted with a 1 molar or substantially 1 molar proportion of benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in a mixture of water and acetone at a temperature of -20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C., preferably at 0.degree. C. under ice-cooling in the presence of a base, preferably an alkali metal carbonate such as sodium carbonate, whereby the preferential benzyloxycarbonylation of the 2""-methylamino group takes place to produce 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyldihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (2) in the first flow diagram. Then, in Stage B of this process, a pair of two 3'- and 3'a-hydroxyl groups as well as a pair of two 4""- and 6""-hydroxyl groups of the compound of the formula (2) are protected by a known di-valent hydroxyl-protecting group such as an alkylidene group, preferably isopropylidene group. For this purpose, the compound of the formula (2) may preferably be reacted with 2,2-dimethoxypropane in anhydrous dimethylformamide (DMF) in the presence of a reaction catalyst such as p-toluenesulfonic acid, whereby the pair of the two 3'- and 3'a-hydroxyl groups as well as the pair of the two 4""- and 6""-hydroxyl groups of the compound of the formula (2) are each protected simultaneously by a single isopropylidene group, to afford 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3',3'a; 4"", 6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (3) in the first flow diagram. Thereafter, in Stage C of this process, all the remaining free (four) hydroxyl groups and all the two guanidyl groups of the compound of the formula (3) are protected, respectively. To this end, all these functional hydroxyl and guanidyl groups may preferably be blocked by acetyl groups. The acetylation reagent available for this purpose may be acetic anhydride as used in the presence of sodium acetate. Thus, the compound of the formula (3) is reacted with acetic anhydride in the presence of sodium acetate using an excess of acetic anhydride as the reaction medium, when there is produced tetra-N-.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3""-tetra-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3',3'a; 4"", 6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin represented by the formula (4) in the first flow diagram. Further, in Stage D of this process, the compound of the formula (4) is treated so as to remove preferentially the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl group therefrom and thereby liberate the free 2""-methylamino group. For this purpose, the compound of the formula (4) may preferably be subjected to catalytic hydrogenolysis with hydrogen in the presence of a known hydrogenolysis catalyst such as palladium black as be conducted conventionally in the deprotection technique for removal of the amino-protecting benzyloxycarbonyl group. There is thus formed tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3""-tetra-O-acetyl-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (5) in the first flow diagram. Moreover, in Stage E of the present process, the compound of the formula (5) is treated so as to remove preferentially the blocking acetyl group from the 3""-hydroxyl group of the compound (5). For this purpose, the compound (5) is dissolved in a volume of ethanol, and the resulting ethanolic solution is allowed to stand at a temperature of 20.degree.-30.degree. C. for 1 day or usually for a period of about 3 days, whereby the selective removal of the 3""-O-acetyl group takes place through the ethanolysis. This unique fact that the blocking acetyl group can be removed only from the 3""-hydroxyl group of the compound (5) while the other blocking O-acetyl groups are not cleaved out of the 2-, 5- and 6-hydroxyl groups of said compound is unexpected and surprising. Through this Stage E, there is formed tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (6) in the first flow diagram. Then, in Stage F of the present process, the 2""-methylamino group of the compound of the formula (6) is again protected by a benzyloxycarbonyl group. To this end, the compound of the formula (6) may either be reacted with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in the same manner as in the aforesaid Stage A, or may be reacted with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in chloroform in the presence of sodium hydrogen carbonate. In this way, there is produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin birefly represented by the formula (7) in the first flow diagram. Thereafter, in Stage G of the present process, the compound of the formula (7) is dissolved into a volume of a suitable organic solvent such as dichloromethane and the resultant solution of the compound (7) is reacted with a 1-10 molar proportion of trifluoromethanesulfonic acid anhydride in the presence of pyridine under cooling (preferably at a temperature of approximately -50.degree. C..about.+50.degree. C.), so that there is once formed an unstable 3""-O-trifluoromethylsulfonyl derivative of the compound (7) as a glassy material. This glassy material is then dissolved into a volume of pyridine and allowed to stand at a temperature of 10.degree. C..about.100.degree. C., preferably at ambient temperature, when the 3""-trifluoromethylsulfonyl group is interacted and condensed with the 2""-benzyloxycarbonylmethylamino group, so that the cyclisation reaction takes place to form a cyclic carbamate group, giving the compound of the formula (8) briefly shown in the first flow diagram, namely tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl-3""-epi-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin. Finally, in Stage H of the present process, the compound of the formula (8) is subjected to an N,O-deprotecting treatments as well as removal of the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group by a hydrolytic ring-fission thereof. That is, the removal of the N,O-protecting acetyl groups and the removal of the cyclic carbamate group (the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group) from the compound of the formula (8) are effected in this Stage H. For this purpose, the compound of the formula (8) may conveniently by hydrolyzed in aqueous tetrahydrofuran in the presence of barium hydroxide, so that both of the acetyl groups and the cyclic carbamate group can be removed at once. The liberated 3""-hydroxyl group which has undergone the decarbonylation just at this stage of removal of the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group is remaining inversed in the epi-position, so that there is formed 3""-epi-3',3'a; 4"",6'-di-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin. The latter compound is further necessary in this Stage H to be subjected to removal of the 3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene groups therefrom, and this can be achieved according to a conventional method for removing the isopropylidene group known in the usual deprotection technique. For instance, the removal of the 3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene groups may be accomplished by hydrolyzing the intermediate 3""-epi-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin in aqueous acetic acid. In this way, there is produced the aimed 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin, represented by the formula (I') in the first flow diagram. In the foregoing descriptions, the process of producing the compound of the formula (I') of this invention is described with reference to such a case where the benzyloxycarbonyl group, isopropylidene group and acetyl group are particularly selected as the protective groups. It will be self-evident, however, that the required, N,O-protection of the concerned compounds can be achieved using such a known amino-protecting group which serves equivalently to the benzyloxycarbonyl group; and such a known guanidyl-amino (or imino) protecting group which serves equivalently to the acetyl group, as well as such known hydroxyl-protecting groups which serve equivalently to the isopropylidene group and acetyl group, respectively. According to a second embodiment of this invention, therefore, there is provided a process for the production of 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin, which comprises the consecutive steps of: (a) Reacting tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3""-tetra-O-acetyl-3',3'a; 4"", 6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin of the formula ##STR3## wherein Ac denotes an acetyl group, with ethanol at a temperature of 20.degree.-30.degree. C. to effect preferential removal of the 3""-O-acetyl group from the above N,O-protected dihydrostreptomycin compound and thereby to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-3',3'a; 4"", 6""-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin, (b) Reacting the product of the step (a) just above with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin, (c) Reacting the product of the step (b) just above with trifluoromethanesulfonic acid anhydride in pyridine at a temperature of -50.degree. C. to 50.degree. C. to form the 30""-O-trifluoromethylsulfonyl derivative thereof, followed by allowing the latter derivative to stand in solution in pyridine at a temperature of 10.degree. C. to 100.degree. C. to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6-tri-O-acetyl-2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl-3""-epi-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin of the formula ##STR4## wherein Ac is as defined as above. (d) Hydrolyzing the product of the step (c) just above with water in the presence of barium hydroxide to remove all the acetyl groups and the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group therefrom and thus to produce 3""-epi-3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin, and (e) Hydrolyzing the product of the step (d) just above to remove the 3',3'a; 4"",6""-di-O-isopropylidene groups therefrom and thus to produce the desired 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin. Besides, the second new compound of this invention, namely 3""-epistreptomycin can be produced with starting from the 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin now newly synthetized as above. A summary of such a process of producing 3""-epistreptomycin is illustrated by the following second flow diagram, where such intermolecular sites of the compound which just have undergone chemical change or modification through the chemical reaction at one particular stage of the process concerned are preferentially represented, so that such substituent or substituents which is or are existing in the concerned compound in one particular stage but is or are remaining unchanged in the next stage following said particular stage are sometimes omitted from being shown in the next stage of the second flow diagram, for sake of simplicity. ##STR5## In the following, a process of producing 3""-epistreptomycin from 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin is described with reference to the respective stages of the process shown in the second flow diagram as above and is fully illustrated by Example 2 given later. 3""-Epidihydrostreptomycin which is employed as the starting substance in this process is the compound of the formula (I') shown in the first flow diagram given hereinbefore. In Stage I of this process, the 2""-methylamino group of the starting compound of the formula (I') is at first protected preferentially with benzyloxycarbonyl group by reacting the starting compound (I') with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in the same manner as in Stage A of the process according to the first flow diagram. There is thus formed 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epidihydrostreptomycin of the formula (9) shown in the second flow diagram, which is usually obtained in the form of its hydrochloride. In Stage J of this process, a pair of two 3'- and 3'a-hydroxyl groups of the compound of the formula (9) is protected with a known di-valent hydroxyl-protecting group such as an alkylidene group. To this end, the compound of the formula (9) may be reacted with an excess over the 1 molar proportion of 2,2-dimethoxypropane in anhydrous DMF in the presence of p-toluenesulfonic acid, so that the desired mono-O-isopropylidenated product is formed in mixture with some poly-O-isopropylidenated products. The poly-O-isopropylidenated products can be converted into the desired mono-O-isopropylidenated product by treatment with aqueous acetic acid. There is thus produced 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epi-3',3'a-O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin of the formula (10) briefly shown in the second flow diagram. In the next stage K of this process, all the remaining free hydroxyl groups and all the guanidyl groups of the compound of the formula (10) are protected with suitable protective groups. For this purpose, the compound of the formula (10) may preferably be acetylated in the same manner as in Stage C of the process according to the first flow diagram, that is, by reacting with a 10 molar proportion or more of acetic anhydride in the presence of sodium acetate. By this Stage K, there is produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epi-3',3'a- O-isopropylidenedihydrostreptomycin of the formula (11) briefly shown in the second flow diagram. In Stage L of this process, the compound of the formula (11) is then subjected to removal of the 3',3'a-O-isopropylidene group therefrom in the same manner as in Stage H of the process according to the first flow diagram, by hydrolyzing the compound (11) in aqueous acetic acid, so that there is produced the compound of the formula (12) briefly shown in the second flow diagram, namely tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epidihydros treptomycin. Next, in Stage M of the present process, the 3'-hydroxymethyl group (the methylol group) of the compound of the formula (12) is oxidized into the aldehyde group --CHO. To this end, the compound of the formula (12) may preferably be reacted with dimethylsulfoxide as an oxidation reagent in the presence of pyridine, trifluoroacetic acid and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. There is thus produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epistreptom ycin (which is not shown in the second flow diagram). The latter aldehyde compound is then subjected to removal of the acetyl groups therefrom, and this deacetylation may conveniently be effected by hydrolysing said aldehyde compound with concentrated aqueous ammonia in methanol. In this way, there is produced 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epistreptomycin of the formula (13) shown in the second diagram. After the above deacetylation step, in the final Stage N of the present process, the compound of the formula (13) is subjected to removal of the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl group therefrom to give the desired 3""-epistreptomycin of the formula (I"") shown in the second diagram. To remove the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl group from the compound (13), the latter compound may conveniently be subjected to a conventional catalytic hydrogenolysis with hydrogen in the presence of a known hydrogenolysis catalyst such as palladium black according to the known deprotection technique. According to a third embodiment of this invention, therefore, there is provided a process for the production of 3""-epistreptomycin which comprises the consecutive steps of: (a) Reacting 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin with a 1 molar or substantially 1 molar proportion of benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in a mixture of water and acetone at a temperature of -20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C. in the presence of an alkali metal carbonate to selectively benzyloxycarbonylate the 2""-methylamino group of 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin and thereby to produce 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epidihydrostreptomycin, (b) Reacting the product of the step (a) just above with 2,2-dimethoxypropane in the presence of p-toluenesulfonic acid to produce 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epi-3',3'a-O-isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin, (c) Reacting the product of the step (b) just above with acetic anhydride in the presence of sodium acetate to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epi-3,3'a-O -isopropylidene-dihydrostreptomycin, (d) Hydrolyzing the product of the step (c) just above with aqueous acetic acid to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epidihydrostre ptomycin, (e) Oxidizing the 3'-hydroxymethyl group of the product of the step (d) just above by reacting the latter compound with dimethylsulfoxide in the presence of pyridine, trifluoroacetic acid and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3"",4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epistreptom ycin, (f) Removing all the acetyl groups from the product of the step (e) just above by hydrolysis to produce 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epistreptomycin, and (g) Subjecting the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-epistreptomycin to a catalytic hydrogenolysis to remove the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl group therefrom and thus to produce the desired 3""-epistreptomycin. We have further found it also possible to produce 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin of the formula (I') through a route different from the route of the process according to the first flow diagram, via the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-dihydrostreptomycin of the formula (2) obtained as an intermediate product. Thus, a further process of producing 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin via the intermediate compound of the formula (2) is briefly shown in the following third flow diagram and is fully illustrated by Example 3 given later. The third flow diagram is shown in brief similarly to the first and second flow diagrams in such way that the intermolecular sites of the compound which just have undergone chemical change or modification at one particular reaction stage are preferentially shown while such sites of the compound which are remaining unchanged at that particular reaction stage are not shown in the third flow diagram. ##STR6## In the process according to the third flow diagram as above, Stage O of this process is to effect the protective N,O-acetylation of the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-dihydrostreptomycin, namely the compound of the formula (2) shown in the first flow diagram and may be conducted in a similar manner to Stage C of the process according to the first flow diagram or to Stage K of the process according to the second flow diagram. In Stage O of this process, therefore, the compound of the formula (2) may preferably be reacted with a 11 molar proportion or more of acetic anhydride in the presence of sodium acetate using an excess of the acetic anhydride as the reaction medium to acetylate all the remaining free hydroxyl groups (seven) (excepting the 3'-hydroxyl group) and all the two guanidyl groups of the compound of the formula (2) and thereby to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,3"",4"",6""-hepta-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyldihydrostr eptomycin represented by the formula (14) in the third flow diagram. Step P of this process is to de-benzyloxycarbonylate the compound of the formula (14) and may be carried out in the same manner as in Stage D of the process according to the first flow diagram. Thus, the compound of the formula (14) may be subjected to a conventional catalytic hydrogenolysis with hydrogen in the presence of a known hydrogenolysis catalyst such as palladium black to remove the 2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl group from said compound and thereby to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,3"",4"",6""-hepta-O-acetyl-dihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (15) in the third flow diagram. Stage Q of this process is to effect a preferential removal of the 3""-O-acetyl group from the compound of the formula (15) and may be carried out in the same manner as in Stage E of the process according to the first flow diagram. Thus, the compound of the formula (15) is dissolved in a volume of ethanol and the resultant ethanolic solution is allowed to stand at a temperature of 20.degree.-30.degree. C. for 1 day or more, whereby the preferential removal of the 3""-O-acetyl gropu from the 3""-hydroxyl group of the compound (15) takes place through ethanolysis. This fact that the blocking acetyl group can be removed only from the 3""-hydroxyl group of the compound (15) while all the other blocking O-acetyl groups are not cleaved out of the compound (15) is unexpectable and surprising. Through this Stage Q, there is produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-dihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (16) in the third flow diagram. Stage R of this process is to effect re-introduction of benzyloxycarbonyl group into the 2""-methylamino group of the compound of the formula (16) and may be conducted in the same manner as in Stage F of the process according to the first flow diagram. Thus, the compound of the formula (16) may either be reacted with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in a mixture of water and acetone under icecooling in the presence of an alkali metal carbonate or may be reacted with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride in chloroform in the presence of sodium hydrogen carbonate. By this Stage R, there is produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-dihydrostreptomy cin briefly represented by the formula (17) in the third flow diagram. Stage S of this process is to methanesulfonylate the 3""-hydroxyl group of the compound of the formula (17) and may be conducted by reacting the compound (17) with a 1 molar or substantially 1 molar proportion of methanesulfonyl chloride in pyridine at a temperature of -50.degree. C. to +50.degree. C. By this Stage S, there is produced tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-O-methylsu lfonyl-dihydrostreptomycin briefly represented by the formula (18) in the third flow diagram. Stage T of the present process is to convert the compound of the formula (18) into a 2"",3""-N,O-carbonylated derivative thereof. For this purpose, the compound of the formula (18) may be dissolved in a volume of 2-methoxy-ethanol and the resultant solution is heated to an elevated temperature of 50.degree. C. to 100.degree. C. in the presence of sodium acetate, or alternatively the compound of the formula (18) may be reacted with sodium methylate in methanol at a temperature of -20.degree. C..about.+50.degree. C., preferably at ambient temperature, whereby the 3""-methylsulfonyloxy group is interacted and condensed with the 2""-benzyloxycarbonyl-(methyl)amino group, so that the cyclisation reaction occurs to form the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group (the cyclic 2"",3""-N,O-carbamate group), with concomitantly involving the reaction for removal of all the acetyl groups. In this way, there is produced 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl-3""-epidihydrostreptomycin of the formula (19) shown in the third flow diagram (see Example 3(f), (g) given later). Stage U of the present process is to effect the hydrolytic ring-fission of the cyclic cis-2"",3""-N,O-carbamate group of the compound of the formula (19). Thus, this Stage U may be accomplished by hydrolyzing the compound of the formula (19) with water in the presence of barium hydroxide in tetrahydrofuran, whereby the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group (the cyclic 2"",3""-N,O-carbamate group) can be removed by the ring-fission thereof from the compound of the formula (19) and the 3""-hydroxyl group so liberated is remaining inversed in the epi-position, to afford the desired 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin, namely the compound of the formula (I') in the third flow diagram. According to a fourth embodiment of this invention, therefore, there is provided a process for the production of 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin, which comprises the consecutive steps of: (a) Reacting tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a, 3"",4"",6""-hepta-O-acetyl-dihydrostreptomycin of the formula ##STR7## wherein Ac denotes an acetyl group, with ethanol at a temperature of 20.degree.-30.degree. C. to effect preferential removal of the 3""-O-acetyl group from the above-mentioned N,O-acetylated dihydrostreptomycin compound and thereby to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyldihydrostreptomycin, (b) Reacting the product of the step (a) just above with benzyloxycarbonyl chloride to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyldihydrostrepto mycin, (c) Reacting the product of the step (b) just above with methanesulfonyl chloride in pyridine to produce tetra-N.sup.G -acetyl-2,5,6,3'a,4"",6""-hexa-O-acetyl-2""-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-3""-O-methylsu lfonyl-dihydrostreptomycin, (d) Reacting the product of the step (c) just above either with 2-methoxyethanol at a temperature of 50.degree. C. to 100.degree. C. or with sodium methylate in methanol at a temperature of -20.degree. C..about.50.degree. C., to produce 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl-3""-epi-dihydrostreptomycin, and (e) Hydrolyzing the product of the step (d) just above with water in the presence of barium hydroxide to remove the 2"",3""-N,O-carbonyl group therefrom and thus to produce the desired 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin. As stated hereinbefore, the new compounds of this invention, namely 3""-epistreptomycin and 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin are of a low toxicity. The new compounds of this invention are each effective in therapeutic treatment of bacterial infections when administered intramuscularly in a dosage of from about 100 mg to about 1000 mg per day in divided dosages three or four times a day. Generally, the new compounds of this invention may be administered orally, intraperitoneally, intravenously or intramuscularly using any pharmaceutical form known in the art for such administration and in a similar manner to streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin. Examples of pharmaceutical forms for oral administration are powders, capsules, tablets, syrup and the like. The new compounds of this invention may also be formulated into an aqueous injectable solution. According to a fifth embodiment of this invention, therefore, there is provided an antibacterial composition comprising an antibacterially effective amount of 3""-epistreptomycin or 3""-epidihydrostreptomycin as the active ingredient, in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for the active ingredient. This invention is now illustrated with reference to the following Examples which show the production of the new compounds of this invention."
4470924	Nontoxic, immunologically crossreactive toxin A protein from Pseudomonas aeruginosa	A nontoxic, immunologically crossreactive toxin A protein produced by a PAO-PR1 mutant strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The protein, in activated form, has substantially no adenosine diphosphate-ribosylating activity, and is nontoxic to cells known to be susceptible to the parent PAO-1 strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from which strain PAO-PR1 was derived. The nontoxic toxin A protein is immunologically indistinguishable from, and has a molecular weight similar to, native toxin A protein produced by the PAO-1 strain.
4474779	Cephalosporin compounds	Cephalosporin compounds represented by the general formula ##STR1## wherein R represents a group shown by formula ##STR2## wherein R.sup.1 represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group of 1-3 carbon atoms and R.sup.2 represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group of 1-3 carbon atoms, a phenyl group which may be substituted by an amino or hydroxy group, a cyano group, a carboxy group, or a carboxymethyl group; said R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 may form a cycloalkylidene group of 4-6 carbon atoms together with the carbon atom to which they are bonded) or a group shown by formula --CH.sub.2 --R.sup.3 (wherein R.sup.3 represents a hydrogen atom, a halogenomethyl group, a carbamoyl group, a carboxymethyl group, .alpha.4-carboxy-3-hydroxyisothiazol-5-yl-thiomethyl group, or .alpha.2-carboxyphenylthiomethyl group); R' represents a group shown by formula ##STR3## (wherein R.sub.a represents a carboxy group, a cyano group, or a carbamoyl group which may be substituted by a lower alkyl group of 1-3 carbon atoms and R.sub.b represents a hydrogen atom or an amino group) or a group shown by formula ##STR4## (wherein R.sub.a and R.sub.b have the same significance as above); and the waveline .about. shows an anti-form or syn-form bond and the salts thereof. They possess excellent antibacterial activities against gram positive bacteria and gram negative bacteria, in particular, pseudomonas aeruginosa and are useful as anti-bacterial agents.
4474946	Di-N.sup.6', O.sup.3 -Demethylistamycin A preparation	A new istamycin A derivative called di-N.sup.6', O.sup.3 -demethylistamycin A exhibits a high antibacterial activity against various bacteria, particularly Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This compound can be prepared by selective acylation of the methylamino group at the 4-position of 1,2',6'-tri-N-protected N.sup.4 -deglycyl-di-N.sup.6', O.sup.3 -demethylistamycin A with glycine or an N-protected derivative thereof, followed by N-deprotection.
4482483	Composition of intravenous immune globulin	An intravenous immune globulin preparation having at least 99% pure globulin protein and an anticomplement activity of less than 0.10 C'50 units/mg IgG prepared by: precipitating impurities from Cohn Fraction II in an aqueous-alcohol medium at defined temperature and pH, removing the precipitated impurities, stabilizing the diluted solution with albumin, concentrating the solution and removing the alcohol therefrom. Also prepared by this method, an intravenous, hyperimmune globulin preparation having increased antibody titers to sixteen serospecific strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4482632	Microbiological process for removing oleaginous material from wastewater and microbiological combination capable of same	A process for removing oleaginous materials containing those of animal origin from wastewater comprising treating wastewater containing oleaginous material with a microbial combination of: PA0 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA0 (b) at least one of: PA1 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA1 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and the microbial combination of: PA0 (a) a microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2 ; and PA0 (b) at least one of: PA1 (i) a microorganism of the genus Bacillus; and PA1 (ii) a microorganism of the genus Pseudomonas other than the strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa mutant SGRR.sub.2.
4508824	Pseudomonas degradation of hydrocarbons	Selected new bacteria of the genus Pseudomonas, particularly the species Pseudomonas putida and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which have the ability to utilize organic compounds from the generic groups aliphatic, cyclo aliphatic, aromatic and/or polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons are described. The source of genetic materials facilitating degradation of the aromatic compounds are metabolic plasmids. In particular, Pseudomonas putida or other Pseudomonas obtained from soil samples and having a non-transmissible and stable ability to degrade hexane (as well as related aliphatic hydrocarbons) are used as starting strains to produce the new bacteria. Transconjugal mating and selection for these genetic traits resulted in the production of bacteria capable of utilizing representative compounds of all the generic groups of the previously listed organic compounds. The bacteria are useful for waste degradation.
4575459	Toxoids of elastase of Pseudomonas aeruginosa origin	Provided herein are two kinds of toxoid of elastase of Pseudomonas aeruginosa origin, one of which is obtained by treating a purified elastase produced from Pseudomonas aeruginosa with a synthetic peptide for chloroacetyl-N-hydroxy-L-leucyl-L-alanylglycinamide and the other of which is obtained by treating at first with formalin, then, with the synthetic peptide. The present invention also contemplates a method for preparing the toxoids and the use of such toxoids for preventing and treating infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa on human beings and mammalian animals. Acute toxicity of the toxoids is inspected.
4578458	Mucoid exopolysaccharide vaccine against Pseudomonas aeruginosa	A method of inducing an immune response against multiple strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa which comprises administering to a human or animal an amount of mucoid exopolysaccharide from Pseudomonas aeruginosa 2192 sufficient to induce an immune response in the human or animal is disclosed along with the microorganism which produces this antigen and a method of separating the antigen from the crude bacterial slime.
4608289	Carpet containing sanitizing compounds and methods	The present invention consists of methods for using certain cationic alkyl phosphate derivatives as sanitizing agents in plastic materials for providing fungicidal and bactericidal properties which are effective against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Various plastic materials of the invention are shown utilizing various sanitizing agents.
4613587	Ophthalmic preparations	There are provided ophthalmic preparations against eye diseases caused by P. aeruginosa elastase or similar enzymes. The active ingredient is a 2-mercaptoacyl di- or tri-peptide obtained from suitable amino acids. There is further provided a process for the treatment of Pseudomonas keratitis by means of such compositions.
4618583	Method of preparing L-(+)-.beta.-hydroxyisobutyric acid by fermentation	A method is provided for preparing L-(+)-.beta.-hydroxyisobutyric acid by fermentation employing microorganisms of the species Pseudomonas aeruginosa and of the genus Protaminobacter such as of the species Protaminobacter alboflavus, and isobutyric acid and/or methacrylic acid and/or derivatives thereof as the substrate.
4656036	Antibiotics Tejeramycin and production thereof	The antibiotics Tejeramycin are active against gram negative and gram positive infections, especially against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The antibiotics Tejeramycin are produced by the aerobic fermentation of Streptomyces griseus ATCC No. 39208 or 39209 in an assimilable aqueous nutrient medium.
4677070	Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A antibodies, their preparation and use	Anti-Pseudomonas antibodies which bind to exotoxin A from P. aeruginosa are prepared from hybrid cell lines. The antibodies may be of any isotype. These antibodies may be used to treat infections caused by P. aeruginosa.
4693891	Vaccine for Pseudomonas aeruginosa	There is disclosed an immunizing composition comprising a non-toxic polysaccharide isolated from gram-negative bacteria, especially from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, covalently coupled to a non-toxic protein from the gram-positive bacterium Micrococcus luteus by means of a 4-12 carbon moiety. To prepare the above immunizing agent, the lipid A portion of lipopolysaccharide from a gram-negative bacterium is separated to give a non-toxic polysaccharide. Reactive aldehyde groups are generated on the non-toxic polysaccharide by selective oxidation. The non-toxic polysaccharide is then covalently coupled to a non-toxic protein isolated from said gram-positive bacterium, Micrococcus luteus, by means of a polyfunctional compound having 4-12 carbon atoms and having at least two functional groups which are reactive to the aldehyde groups on the non-toxic polysaccharide and to the carboxylic groups on the non-toxic protein.
4694001	.beta.-lactam compound and a pharmaceutical composition containing the same	.beta.-Lactam compounds represented by the general formula: ##STR1## (wherein X represents CH.sub.2, S or O; Y represents a hydroxyl group, a lower alkanoyloxy group or a lower alkoxycarbonyloxy group; W is a group represented by CH.sub.2, NH, ##STR2## A is a phenyl group, a naphthyl group, or a monocyclic or dicyclic heterocyclic group, respectively substituted by (Y).sub.n ; R.sub.4 and R.sub.5 each are a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, or a cycloalkylidene group with a carbon atom combined therewith; l is 0 or an integer of 1, 2 or 3; m is 0 or 1; n is an integer of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5; and R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and R.sub.3 are groups often used in the conventional .beta.-lactam compounds) have strong antimicrobial activities against a wide range of Gram positive and negative bacteria; particularly Gram negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas sepatia and various Enterobacters.
4702910	Common antigen (PSC-A) to Pseudomonas aeruginosa which acts as an agent for pretecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	PSC-A is a new serological common antigen to Pseudomonas aeruginosa having very low toxicity, and highly effective for protecting infection by any of the serotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. PSC-A can be used as the active component in a pharmaceutical agent for protecting Pseudonomas aeruginosa infection.
4719290	Composition of intravenous immune globulin	An intravenous immune globulin preparation having at least 99% pure globulin protein and an anticomplement activity of less than 0.10 C'50 units/mg IgG prepared by: precipitating impurities from Cohn Fraction II in an aqueous-alcohol medium at defined temperature and pH, removing the precipitated impurities, stabilizing the diluted solution with albumin, concentrating the solution and removing the alcohol therefrom. Also prepared by this method, an intravenous, hyperimmune globulin preparation having increased antibody titers to sixteen serospecific strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
4771127	Nontoxic pseudomonas aeruginosa polysaccharide-tetanus toxoid and polysaccharide-toxin a conjugate vaccines	Polysaccharide-protein conjugates were synthesized utilizing polysaccharide derived from hydrolyized Pseudomonas aeruginosa lipopolysacharide covalently coupled to either tetanus toxoid or P. aeruginosa toxin A, utilizing a spacer molecule and a coupling agent. Conjugates produced in such a manner possess a molecular weight of greater than 350,000, are nontoxic and non-pyrogenic, and upon immunization of animals induced protective anti-LPS antibody and antibody which neutralizes the lethal effect of tetanus toxin or toxin A. The polysaccharide-tetanus toxoid conjugate and polysaccharide-toxin A conjugate are safe and immunogenic when parenterally administered to humans.
4777136	Monoclonal antibody reactive with Pseudomonas Aeruginosa	A hybridoma cell line identified by ATCC #HB8909, capable of producing monoclonal antibodies reactive with an antigenic determinant of lipopolysaccharide which is common to all strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and to Pseudomonas maltophilia, and is not reactive substantially with any antigenic determinant of other clinically important gram-negative bacteria is disclosed. Methods of producing the hybrid as well as diagnostic, prophylactic and therapeutic use of the monoclonal antibodies are also disclosed.
4780238	Natural chelating agents for radionuclide decorporation	This invention relates to the preparation of new, naturally produced chelating agents as well as to the method and resulting chelates of desorbing cultures in a bioavailable form involving Pseudomonas species or other microorganisms. A preferred microorganism is Pseudomonas aeruginosa which forms multiple chelates with thorium in the range of molecular weight 100-1,000 and also forms chelates with uranium of molecular weight in the area of 100-1,000 and 1,000-2,000.
4816559	Biologically active peptides TAN-866	The iron-containing biologically active peptide TAN-866 produced by microorganisms belonging to the genus Pseudomonas and its iron free compounds have antibacterial activity mainly against gram-negative bacteria. These peptides can be used as a therepeutic agent for bacterial infections in mammals, domestic fowl, etc., caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Further, TAN-866 and its deacyl compounds are also promising as the starting materials and intermediates for the synthesis of novel products.
4831121	Polydisperse native pseudomonas flagellar (H) antigens (FAg) and methods of producing them	Polydisperse native Pseudomonas flagellar (H) antigens (FAg) and methods of producing them are described, wherein each monomeric component contains certain amino acids, has a certain N-terminal amino acid sequence and a certain molecular weight and is free from pyrogenic substances. The ratio of the individual amino acids in the flagellar antigen of the individual H-serotypes is stated. For producing the polydisperse native Pseudomonas flagellar (H) antigens (FAg) methods are indicated, wherein Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacterial cultures or fractions thereof are treated with a detergent and the flagellar antigens are separated from the cultures. Prior to treatment or in the presence of the detergent, the bacterial culture is subjected to a shearing procedure, i.e. exposed to shearing forces. Thereafter, the flagellar antigens separated from the bacterial mass are isolated by a chromatographic treatment. For this chromatographic treatment a molecular sieve can be used and a further purification by chromatography on a column can be carried out for obtaining flagellar antigens of high purity.
4834975	Human monoclonal antibodies to serotypic lipopolysaccharide determinants on gram-negative bacteria and their production	Transformed human lymphocyte cell lines have been produced which secrete human monoclonal antibodies to serotypic determinants on LPS molecules of gram-negative bacteria. These antibodies have been found to be protective against lethal challenges of the homologous bacteria. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies and their prophylactic and therapeutic use in the management of gram-negative disease in humans are also disclosed. Human lymphocyte cell lines secreting human monoclonal antibodies specifically reacting with Pseudomonas aeruginosa Fisher immunotypes 1 (C5B7), 2 (6F11), 4 (C5D5), 5 (13C1), 6 (5G2) and 7 (8E7) were deposited at the American Type Culture Collection and given A.T.C.C. Accession Nos. CRL 8753, CRL 8562, CRL 8754, CRL 8796, CRL 8797 and CRL 8795, respectively.
4834976	Monoclonal antibodies to pseudomonas aeruginosa flagella	Cell lines have been produced that secrete monoclonal antibodies capable of binding to the flagellar proteins of selected Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains. Some of these antibodies have been found to be protective against lethal challenges of P. aeruginosa. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies, which can be in combination with other monoclonal antibodies, blood plasma fractions and antimicrobial agents, and the prophylactic and therapeutic use of such compositions in the management of infections, are included. Prior to filing this application, the continuous transformed cell lines PaF4 IVE8, FA6 IIG5, 20H11, and 21B8, described herein, were deposited in the America Type Culture Collection and given the designations HB9129, HB9130, CRL 9300, and CRL 9301, respectively.
4866055	Cephalosporin derivatives and their crystalline derivatives	The present invention relates to novel cephalosporin derivatives and their crystalline form, processes for preparing thereof, compositions for treating and/or preventing infectious diseases which comprise the novel cephalosporin derivatives as active components, and the intermediate compounds in the synthesis of cephalosporin derivatives and processes for producing thereof. The present invention is based on the selection of a triazolopyrimidine ring as substituent at the 3-position of the cephem skeleton, and a 2-carboxy-4,5-dihydroxyphenylmethyloxyimino moiety as substituent at the 7-position of the cephem skeleton. The compounds of the present invention containing these substituents have a wide antibacterial spectrum against Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Gram-positive bacteria including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. These compounds are extremely useful for the treatment of infectious diseases.
4873090	Non-adjuvenated vaccine	An enteral non-adjuvenated monobacterial vaccine comprising killed bacteria gives a better protection against acute episodes of infection in patients with long term chronic lung disease than a conventional adjuvenated polybacterial vaccine. The bacteria are usually Haemophilus influenza, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Staphylococcus aureus.
4923450	Medical tubes for placement into the body of a patient	Medical tubes such as a catheter or cannula having antibacterial action against pseudomonas aeruginosa, staphylococcus aureus, escherichia coli and fungus is disclosed. Anhydrous or crystallization water containing powdered zeolite, wherein one or the whole of metals contained in said zeolite is substituted by at least one kind of ion exchangeable metals selected from the group consisting of Ag,Cu and Zn, is coated onto or kneaded into at least the portion of said tubes indwelled and placed into the body of a patient.
4933281	Method for producing rhamnose	A method for large-scale production of rhamnose and 3-hydroxydecanoic acid is disclosed comprising the steps of growing microorganisms of Pseudomonas sp. capable of production of high levels of rhamnolipid in a defined culture medium containing vegetable oil. Additional steps include isolating the rhamnolipid from the culture medium, hydrolyzing the rhamnolipid to produce rhamnose and 3-hydroxydecanoic acid, and separating the rhamnose from the acid. Corn oil is the preferred vegetable oil and Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the preferred Pseudomonas sp. Non-limiting concentrations of nitrogen compounds and magnesium compounds and limiting concentrations of iron compounds are additionally preferably included in the culture medium.
4943567	Cephalosporin compound and pharmaceutical composition thereof	Cephalosporin compounds represented by the general formula (I): ##STR1## wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.5 independently represent a hydrogen atom or a protective group for an amino group; R.sup.2 represents an alkyl group or a cycloalkyl group; R.sup.3 represents a hydrogen atom, a lower alkenyl group, an alkanoyloxymethyl group, a carbamoyloxymethyl group, a heterocyclic thiomethyl group or a heterocyclic methyl group; R.sup.4 represents a hydrogen atom or an ester residue; and X represents CH or a nitrogen atom and pharmacologically acceptable addition salts thereof, intermediate compounds used in the synthesis process of these compounds, production methods of these compounds and pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds. Said compounds or addition salts thereof exhibit noticeable antibacterial activities even on Pseudomonas aeruginosa, on which known cephalosporin compounds do not exhibit antibacterial activities, and moreover, work well against ordinary Gram-positive bacteria and Gram-negative bacteria.
4946677	Preparations active against pseudomonas aeruginosa infections and methods of producing them	Preparations active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa Infections, namely vaccines for active immunization as well as preparations containing antibodies and destined for passive protection; as well as methods for the production thereof. The vaccines contain protective flagellar (H) antigens of the serotype a and b, which consist of monomeric components, each monomeric component is composed of certain amino acids having a certain N-terminal amino acid sequence and has a certain molecular weight. The vaccines are made from purified flagellar (H) antigen solutions. The immunoglobulin-G-containing preparations contain flagellar (H) antibodies obtained from the blood plasma of human donors or mammals immunized with protective flagellar (H) antigens. They can be purified by methods of affinity chromatography.
4966754	Preservation of cosmetic compositions	A cosmetic composition containing a dermatologically acceptable carrier or vehicle and certain essential oils as a preservative. The essential oil provides antimicrobial assurance against Apergillus niger, Candida albicans, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A method of preparing the preserved cosmetic composition is also described.
4971961	Cephalosporin compounds and antibacterial agents	This invention provides cephalosporin compounds represented by the following general formula: ##STR1## wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are same or different hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group of 1 to 5 carbon atoms; R.sup.3 is a lower alkyl group which may optionally be substituted with a halogen atome (or atoms), an alkenyl group, or a cycloalkylmethyl group of 3 to 6 carbon atoms; and A is hydrogen atom or residue of a nucleophilic compound and pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof. These compounds have broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against Gram-positive and -negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, as well as against a great variety of .beta.-lactamase-producing strains.
4994269	Topical use of antibodies for prevention or treatment of pseudomonas infections	Method of preventing or treating a Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Method comprises topical application of antibodies to P. aeruginos under conditions and in an amount sufficient to prevent or treat the infection in a mammal. In one embodiment, the antibodies are administrered in form of an aerosol. A preferred dosage for polyclonal antibody preparations (i.e. ISG or high titer P. aeruginosa ISG) ranges from 2 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg body weight of the mammal. A preferred monoclonal antibody dosage ranges from 0.02 to 1.0 mg/kg of body weight.
5013654	Production of emulsifying agents and surfactants	A novel strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, designated as strain SB-1, is capable of growth on hydrocarbon substrates having 10 to 32 or more carbon atoms, during which growth there is secreted into the culture medium an emulsifier which can be recovered and used for such applications as reducing the viscosity of crude oil in secondary recovery methods, as well as in oil spill management and the cleaning of oil-contaminated vessels and pipelines. A novel mutant strain of P. aeruginosa SB-1, designated SB-3, has the property of growing on solid (C.sub.20 +) paraffins but not on liquid alkanes. The selective degradation by strain SB-3 of the solid paraffinic components in crude oil is advantageous in reducing the viscosity of the oil for improving the recovery thereof from oil wells. A novel revertant strain of P. aeruginosa SB-3, designated SB-30, grows both on liquid and solid hydrocarbon substrates, but produces greater amounts of emulsifier than are produced by SB-1 when grown on other relatively inexpensive sources of carbon, such as corn oil or chicken fat.
5114712	Common antigen (PSC-A) to Pseudomonas aeruginosa which acts as an agent for protecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	PSC-A is a new serological common antigen to Pseudomonas aeruginosa having very low toxicity, and highly effective for protecting infection by any of the serotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. PSC-A can be used as the active component in a pharmaceutical agent for protecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.
5157113	Removal of nucleic acids from monoclonal antibody preparations	An essentially pure and stablized antibody preparation comprising IgM antibodies having a purity greater than about 98% by weight and a nucleic acid content of less than about 200 pg per mg IgM. In one embodiment IgM antibodies from a monoclonal source are subjected to ion exchange and size exclusion chromatography at an alkaline pH to yield a purified IgM having a nucleic acid content of less than 10 pg/mg IgM, preferably less than about 4 pg/mg IgM. A highly purified and stabilized preparation of anti Pseudomonas aeruginosa antibodies is disclosed. The removal of nucleic acids is assured by subjecting the antibody source to at least one and preferably two low pH precipitation steps. In a very preferred embodiment, ion exchange and/or size exclusion chromatography is used to remove any residual nucleic acids.
5179001	Detection and monitoring of chronic and gram-negative infection	The present invention provides novel compositions and methods useful in the diagnosis and monitoring of Gram-negative infection, especially chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection associated with cystic fibrosis. Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PAC 605 core lipopolysaccharide determinants are employed as a solid phase antigen in enzyme linked immunosorbant assays and Western blot immunoassay to measure human IgG response to P. aeruginosa infection. The novel compositions are provided in kit form for use in assay methods according to the present invention.
5196337	Human monoclonal antibody, and its production and use	A human monoclonal antibody, which has prophylactic and therapeutic effect to infectious diseases caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa of serotypes A and H classified under the Japanese Committee's Classification, and the epitope of which is located at the common structure in the O-antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa of serotypes A and H. A hybridoma producing said human monoclonal antibody, and processes for preparing said hybridoma and antibody are also provided.
5237053	Preparation active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections and methods of producing them	Preparations active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, namely vaccines for active immunization as well as preparations containing antibodies and destined for passive protection; as well as methods for the production thereof. The vaccines contain protective flagellar (H) antigens of the serotype a and b, which consist of monomeric components, each monomeric component is composed of certain amino acids having a certain N-terminal amino acid sequence and has a certain molecular weight. The vaccines are made from purified flagellar (H) antigen solutions. The immunoglobulin-G-containing preparations contain flagellar (H) antibodies obtained from the blood plasma of human donors or mammals immunized with protective flagellar (H) antigens. They can be purified by methods of affinity chromatography.
5252480	Human monoclonal antibody and hybridoma producing the same	A human monoclonal antibody, which has prophylactic and therapeutic effect to infections diseases caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the epitope of which is located in the outer core moiety of LPS of the microorganism. A hybridoma producing the human monoclonal antibody, and processes for preparing the antibody and hybridoma are also provided.
5288617	Method of producing an antigenic preparation	Antigenic preparations active against species of bacteria naturally producing Type 4 fimbriae, such as Bacteroides nodosus which causes footrot in sheep, are produced by culturing a suitable genetically engineered aerobic or facultatively anaerobic host bacterial cell such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The host cell contains the gene encoding the fimbrial structural subunit antigens of at least one strain of the said species of bacteria and an endogenous compatible system for the morphogenetic assembly of Type 4 fimbriae and/or the genes for the morphogenetic assembly of such fimbriae derived from a Type 4 fimbriate species. The genetically engineered host cells are cultured such that nature fimbriae are produced as extracellular structures and the fimbriae are harvested, substantially free of the host cells, for use as the antigenic preparation. In preferred embodiments of the invention the natural fimbrial subunit gene is modified to enhance expression in the new host. Antigenic preparations according to this invention have proven to be effective vaccines against footrot.
5290691	Safe and versatile cloning vector	A safe and versatile recombinant DNA cloning vector having at least two functionally different replication origins selected independently from the group consisting of a replication origin functional in Bacillus subtilis, a replication origin functional in Escherichia coli and a replication origin functional in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and at least one DNA segment which provides resistance against at least one antibiotic after introduction into susceptible host cells. The origin for replication origin functional in Bacillus subtilis can be a restriction fragment of a plasmid of Gram positive bacteria, and that Escherichia coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa can be a restriction fragment of a plasmid of Gram negative bacteria, e.g. a restriction fragment of plasmids pMS 140-1 or pMS 71.
5324511	Vaccines and immunoglobulin G-containing preparations active against pseudomonas aeruginosa	Vaccines that are active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections contain a single flagellar (H) antigen of serotype a or a combination of a single flagellar (H) antigen of serotype a with a flagellar (H) antigen of serotype b. Applied to man, the vaccines according to the invention induce the formation of antibodies that are directed against any combination of partial flagellar (H) antigens a.sub.0, a.sub.1, a.sub.2, a.sub.3, a.sub.4 and b, inhibiting the motility of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogens and inducing the killing of the pathogens by phagocytizing cells of the human immune system.
5378812	Monoclonal antibodies cross-reactive and cross-protective against P. aeruginosa serotypes	Cell lines have been produced that secrete human monclonal antibodies capable of binding to the lipopolysaccharide molecules of selected Pseudomonas aeruginosa IATS serotypes. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies, which can be in combination with other monoclonal antibodies, blood plasma fractions and antimicrobial agents, and the prophylactic and therapeutic use of such compositions in the management of infections are included. Prior to filing of this patent application the continuous transformed human cell lines 1C1, 6D6, and 8H7 described herein were deposited in the American Type Culture Collection and given the designations CRL 8941, 9171, and. 9258, respectively.
5438053	Cephem compounds compositions and method	Novel cephem compounds having, at the 3-position of the cephem nucleus, a group of the formula: EQU --CH.sub.2 --S--A--Y--B wherein A stands for a further optionally substituted divalent nonionic aromatic heterocyclic group bounded to the adjacent sulfur atom via carbon atom, Y stands for a bond, a sulfur atom, an oxygen atom, NH, CONH, SO.sub.2 NH or a divalent C.sub.1 -C.sub.6 hydrocarbon chain optionally including one or two selected from the group consisting of sulfur atom, oxygen atom, NH group, CONH group and SO.sub.2 NH group in the chain, and B stands for a group of the formula: ##STR1## wherein R.sup.3 stands for H or an optionally substituted lower alkyl, R.sup.4 and R.sup.4 ' each stand for H, OH, an optionally substituted lower alkyl, COOH or CONH, or salts thereof, having excellent antibacterial activities especially against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and keeping effective serum levels over a long period.
5441938	Factors which regulate macrophage antibacterial activity	A novel therapy for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, in particular in cystic fibrosis patients, is described. Macrophages provide the first line of defence in protecting the lung against bacterial infections. Nonetheless, Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections continue to be problematic in cystic fibrosis patients and are the leading cause of death in these patients. Previously, little was known regarding the factors which regulate the capacity of macrophages to mediate phagocytosis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The inventors have now shown that phagocytosis of nonopsonized Pseudomonas aeruginosa by macrophages is dependent upon the presence of glucose. They have also shown that the action of glucose is on the macrophage rather than the bacteria. Glucose therapy can therefore be used to prevent or combat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections.
5447914	Antimicrobial peptides	Peptides which exhibit antimicrobial activity comparable to certain known antibiotics are provided. These peptides are related in sequence to amino acid sequences within Cathepsin G. A broad spectrum bactericidal peptide disclosed herein is RPGTLCTVAGWGRVSMRRGT (SEQ ID NO:22). It is active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Staphylococcus aureus. RRENTQQHITARRAIRHPQY (SEQ ID NO:19) and GKSSGVPPEVFTRFVSSFLPWIRTTMR (SEQ ID NO:20) also exhibited potent activity against P, aeruginosa strains, including clinical isolates. IIGGR (SEQ ID NO:1) and IVGGR (SEQ ID NO:2) act against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacterial strains. HPQYNQR (SEQ ID NO:3) and certain related peptides are also active against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, including, but not limited to, strains of Escherichia coli, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Staphylococcus aureus, Capnocytophage sputigena and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The peptides of the present invention will be useful in pharmaceutical compositions useful in the treatment of prophylaxis of infections.
5463046	1-.beta.-methyl-2-thiolic carbapenem derivatives	The present invention relates to new 1-.beta.-methyl-2-thiolic carbapenem derivatives represented by the following general formula (I) and producing method thereof. ##STR1## The above-mentioned compound is very stable against DHP-1 enzyme due to effective shielding of carbapenem ring structually and is highly effective in both gram-positive and gram-negative microorganism, especially has a remarkable effect on the Pseudomonas aeruginosa known as a disease germ having strong resistance.
5468484	Method of prevention of pseudomonas infection	The invention described includes methods and compositions useful in preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and related organisms. Diclosed is a peptide having the sequence corresponding to an antigenic site in the protein exoenzyme S which is antigenically similar to a C-terminal portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa pilin protein. The peptide is cross-reactive with surface peptides present in certain bacterial and fungal microorganisms, and is effective in inhibiting binding of such organisms to target epithelial cells. The peptide may also be employed in a vaccine composition, for producing immunity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as against such cross-reactive microorganisms.
5478864	Method for disinfection using a 1,n-bis(N.sup.5 -trifluoromethyl-phenyl-N.sup.1 -biguanido)-alkane	A novel disinfectant is disclosed. Said disinfectant is a compound 1,n-bis(N.sup.5 -m-, or p-trifluoromethyl-phenyl-N.sup.1 -biguanido)-C.sub.3 -C.sub.10 -alkane. The m-trifluoro-C.sub.6 derivative is a known compound. The compounds of the present invention exhibit germicidal effect against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus vulgaris and Alcaligenes faecalis at concentrations of 1/4-1/8 of the effective concentration for chlorhexidine. Against other microorganisms, the compounds are effective at the same level as chlorhexidine.
5494672	Pseudomonas peptide composition and method	A peptide having a sequence corresponding to a C-terminal portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa pilin protein is disclosed. The peptide is cross-reactive with surface peptides present in certain bacterial and fungal microorganisms, and is effective in inhibiting binding of such organisms to target epithelial cells. The peptide may also be employed in a vaccine composition, for producing immunity against such cross-reactive microorganisms. Also disclosed are methods of preparing peptides which are cross-reactive with the P. aeruginosa pilin peptide, and chimeric monoclonal antibodies immunoreactive with the pilin peptide.
5501966	Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its use in a process for the biotechnological preparation of L-rhamnose	Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its use in a process for the biotechnological production of L-rhamnose Bacterial strains are capable of the formation of rhamnolipids, which they generate in the culture solution. If bacteria of the type Pseudomonas aeruginosa are employed for the fermentation, these microorganisms synthesize rhamnolipids in a concentration of 70-120 g/l of culture solution. The L-rhamnose can be recovered directly from the culture solution by hydrolysis of the rhamnolipids, i.e. without a complicated separation of the cell material and without isolation of the rhamnolipids before hydrolysis.
5508193	Pseudomonas strain for degradation of s-triazines in soil and water	A method for degradation of s-triazine compounds, including atrazine, which utilizes an atrazine degrading Pseudomonas (ADP) bacterium and its enzymes is provided. ADP was isolated from atrazine-contaminated soil and is phylogenetically close to P. aeruginosa and P. citronellolis. When ADP is cultivated on atrazine medium, it produces enzymes that can completely degrade atrazine to yield CO.sub.2 from ring carbons.
5521085	Transformed cell lines producing human monoclonal antibodies specific for Pseudomonas aeruginosa serotypes	The present invention relates to human monoclonal antibodies capable of plurally binding with O-antigens of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, relates to novel parent cell lines for producing human hybridomas derived from human immunoglobulin synthesizing cells, which cell lines themselves incapable of producing human immunoglobulin and capable of fusing with human antibody-producing cells, relates to human-human hybridomas which can secrete monoclonal antibodies capable of binding with at least one of serotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, relates to pharmaceutical compositions for prophylaxis or therapy of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infectious diseases, and relates to prophylactic or therapeutic methods for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infectious diseases.
5550223	Lipoprotein I (ompi) of pseudomonas aeruginosa	The gene for the outer membrane protein lipoprotein I (OMPI) of Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 33354 has been sequenced, and the amino acid sequence has been deduced. This makes it possible to obtain this protein and immunogenic part-sequences thereof in the quantity and purity necessary for use for the preparation of vaccines.
5559224	Carbepenem derivatives	Carbapenem derivatives which may be utilized as antibiotics and which show strong antibacterial activity against various bacterial strains including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compounds containing the derivatives are quite safe and are also stable against hydrolases such as dehyropeptidase (DHP).
5573910	Detection of conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa infecting cystic fibrosis patients involving the algu gene	Compositions and methods for detecting the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. Mucoidy is a critical P. aeruginosa virulence factor in cystic fibrosis that has been associated with biofilm develoment and resistance to phagocytosis. The present invention provides for detecting the switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state as caused by the interaction of the algU gene product, algU, with RNA polymerase. Inactivation of algU results in a loss of expression of genes, such as algD, dependent on algU for transcription. Also disclosed is a novel alginate biosynthesis heterologous expression system for use in screening candidate substances that inhibit conversion to mucoidy by inhibiting the interaction of algU with the RNA polymerase holoenzyme.
5580897	1,2-dithiins having antifungal activity	Novel 1,2-dithiin compounds useful as antifungal or anti-infective agents, as well as methods for their use as such, are described. The 1,2-dithiin compounds are particularly effective in treating infections, especially those caused by Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, Trichophyton rubrum, Epidermophyton species, Microsporum species, Sporothrix species, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidiodes immiitis, Histoplasma capsulatum, Herpes virus, Influenza virus, Cytomegalovirus, human immunodeficiency virus, retrovirus, Adenovirus, Papillomavirus, Paravirus, Arenavirus, Bunyavirus, Coronavirus, Paramyxovirus, Picornavirus, Rhabdlovirus, Togavirus, Hepadnavirus, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus epidermis, Zanthomonus maltrophilia, Acinetobacter, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marscens, Listeria, Monocytogenes, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes; Straptococcus pneumonia, Viridans streptococci, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, proteus vulgaris and Bacterioides fragilis.
5591838	Detection of conversion to mucoidy in pseudomonas aeruginosa infecting cystic fibrosis patients	Compositions and methods for detecting the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. Chronic respiratory infections with mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa are the leading cause of high mortality and morbidity in cystic fibrosis. The initially colonizing strains are nonmucoid but in the cystic fibrosis lung they invariably convert into the mucoid form causing further disease deterioration and poor prognosis. The molecular basis of this conversion to mucoidy is also disclosed. The algU gene encodes a protein homologous to an alternative sigma factor regulating sporulation and other developmental processes in Bacillus, and along with the negative regulators mucA and mucB comprises the gene cluster controlling conversion to mucoidy. The switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state is caused by frameshift deletions and duplications in the second gene of the cluster, mucA. Inactivation of mucA results in constitutive expression of genes, such as algD, dependent on algU for transcription. Insertional inactivation of mucB on the chromosome of the standard genetic strain PAO also resulted in mucoid phenotype, and in a strong transcriptional activation of algD. Activation of algD results in increased synthesis of the exopolysaccharide alginate rendering P. aeruginosaa mucoid.
5591872	Autoinducer molecule	Autoinducer molecules, e.g., N-(3-oxododecanoyl)homoserine lactone, for Pseudomonas aeruginosa are described. The molecules regulate gene expression in the bacterium. Therapeutic compositions and therapeutic methods involving analogs and/or inhibitors of the autoinducer molecules also are described. The molecules are useful for treating or preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
5599665	Pseudomonas aeruginosa nucleic acids encoding exoenzyme S activity and use thereof in detecting pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	A genetic construct containing a coding region for exoenzyme S activity from Pseudomonas aeruginosa is disclosed. A essentially pure protein preparation of the 49 kDa form of exoenzyme S is also disclosed. The protein product of the genetic construct may be used to modify the RAS protein function in mammalian carcinomas, used as a vaccine, or used to diagnose Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.
5627067	Monoclonal antibodies cross-reactive and cross-protective against human monoclonal antibodies against pseudomonas aeruginosa serotypes	Cell lines have been produced that secrete human monclonal antibodies capable of binding to the lipopolysaccharide molecules of selected Pseudomonas aeruginosa IATS serotypes. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies, which can be in combination with other monoclonal antibodies, blood plasma fractions and antimicrobial agents, and the prophylactic and therapeutic use of such compositions in the management of infections are included. Prior to filing of this patent application the continuous transformed human cell lines 1C1, 6D6, and 8H7 described herein were deposited in the American Type Culture Collection and given the designations CRL 8941, 9171, and 9258, respectively.
5628996	Method for inhibiting the viability of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with cross-reactive and cross-protective monoclonal antibodies	Cell lines have been produced that secrete human monclonal antibodies capable of binding to the lipopolysaccharide molecules of selected Pseudomonas aeruginosa IATS serotypes. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies, which can be in combination with other monoclonal antibodies, blood plasma fractions and antimicrobial agents, and the prophylactic and therapeutic use of such compositions in the management of infections are included.
5635184	Essential oil composition with bactericide activity	The present invention relates with a bacterial composition comprising an effective amount of an essential oil distilled from a resinous tree preferably Schinus Molle L. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus are killed by the composition.
5648354	1,2-dithiins having antifungal activity	Novel 1,2-dithiin compounds useful as antifungal or anti-infective agents, as well as methods for their use as such, are described. The 1,2-dithiin compounds are particularly effective in treating infections, especially those caused by Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, Trichophyton rubrum, Epidermophyton species, Microsporum species, Sporothrix species, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidiodes immiitis, Histoplasma capsulatum, Herpes virus, Influenza virus, Cytomegalovirus, human immunodeficiency virus, retrovirus, Adenovirus, Papillomavirus, Paravirus, Arenavirus, Bunyavirus, Coronavirus, Paramyxovirus, Picornavirus, Rhabdovirus, Togavirus, Hepadnavirus, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus epidermis, Zanthomonus maltrophilia, Acinetobacter, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marscens, Listeria, Monocytogenes, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes; Streptococcus pneumonia, Viridans streptococci, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabills, Proteus vulgaris and Bacterioides fragilis.
5656169	Biodegradation process for de-toxifying liquid streams	A biological degradation process is disclosed. The biological gradation process utilizes a unique thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture capable of converting, biologically or via oxidation, aqueous and other liquid streams containing substances that are ordinarily considered toxic to conventional biological systems. Substances ordinarily considered toxic to conventional biological systems, but which nevertheless are converted by the thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture, include aniline; benzothiazole; 5,6-dihydro-2-methyl-N-phenyl-1,4-oxathiin-3-carboxamide; lindane (technically known as 1.alpha.,2.alpha.,3.beta.,4.alpha.,5.alpha.,6.beta.-hexachlorocyclohexane) ; 2-mercaptobenzothiazole; toluene; and combinations thereof. The unique thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture comprises relative effective amounts of Pseudomonas stutzeri, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas mendocina and Alcaligenes denitrificans subsp. xylosoxydans. A biological degradation process for treating the liquid stream containing substances ordinarily considered toxic comprises contacting the stream with the thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture, for an amount of time that is effective for de-toxifying the stream.
5658793	Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its use in a process for the biotechnological preparation of L-rhamnose	Bacterial strains are capable of the formation of rhamnolipids, which they generate in the culture solution. If bacteria of the type Pseudomonas aeruginosa are employed for the fermentation, these microorganisms synthesize rhamnolipids in a concentration of 70-120 g/l of culture solution. The L-rhamnose can be recovered directly from the culture solution by hydrolysis of the rhamnolipids, i.e. without a complicated separation of the cell material and without isolation of the rhamnolipids before hydrolysis.
5662905	Monoclonal antibody compositions cross-reactive and cross-protective against P. aeruginosa serotypes	Cell lines have been produced that secrete human monoclonal antibodies capable of binding to the lipopolysaccharide molecules of selected Pseudomonas aeruginosa IATS serotypes. Pharmaceutical compositions containing these antibodies, which can be in combination with other monoclonal antibodies, blood plasma fractions and antimicrobial agents, and the prophylactic and therapeutic use of such compositions in the management of infections are included. Prior to filing of this patent application the continuous transformed human cell lines 1C1, 6D6 and 8H7 described herein were deposited in the American Type Culture Collection and given the designations CRL 8941, 9171, and 9258, respectively.
5716829	Diagnostic test for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections	Methods and reagents are provided for a novel immunodiagnostic test for the presence of P. aeruginosa in a biological sample. Monoclonal antibodies are employed which bind to an outer membrane protein antigen, which may be exposed by a solubilizing reagent. The antibody binds substantially all strains of P. aeruginosa. No cross-reactivity with other species of Pseudomonas or with other clinically significant gram-negative or gram-positive species is observed. Conjugating the monoclonal antibody of the invention with a fluorescent label provides for a rapid and sensitive direct immunofluorescent test for P. aeruginosa.
5762928	Biocontrol agent for green mold disease of mushrooms	A biological control agent for controlling green mold disease caused by the fungus Trichoderma harzianum. An effective amount of a composition comprising Pseudomonas aeruginosa and mutants thereof which retain the characteristic of preventing green mold growth is applied to compost, spawn, or supplement, to prevent or inhibit the growth of green mold.
5767068	Pure biologically active colistin, its components and a colistin formulation for treatment of pulmonary infections	An anti-Pseudomonas aeruginosa agent which is substantially pure biologically active colistin, its component, a mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation. A formulation and method for preparation of substantially pure biologically active colistin, its components, mixtures thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. A method for treatment and prophylaxis of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia or other susceptible pulmonary bacterial infections.
5798211	Probe for diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa	DNA probes for diagnosing infectious diseases involving Pseudomonas aeruginosa and methods of using such probes are provided.
5798336	Antimicrobial peptides	Peptides which exhibit antimicrobial activity comparable to certain known antibiotics are provided. These peptides are related in sequence to amino acid sequences within Cathepsin G. A broad spectrum bactericidal peptide disclosed herein is RPGTLCTVAGWGRVSMRRGT (SEQ ID NO:22). It is active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Staphylococcus aureus. RRENTQQHITARRAIRHPQY (SEQ ID NO:19) and GKSSGVPPEVFTRFVSSFLPWIRTTMR (SEQ ID NO:26) also exhibited potent activity against P. aeruginosa strains, including clinical isolates. IIGGR (SEQ ID NO:1) and IVGGR (SEQ ID NO:2) act against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacterial strains. HPQYNQR (SEQ ID NO:3) and certain related peptides are also active against both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria, including, but not limited to, strains of Escherichia coli, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Staphylococcus aureus, Capnocytophage sputigena and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The peptides of the present invention will be useful in pharmaceutical compositions useful in the treatment of prophylaxis of infections.
5861163	Process for preparing a vaccine against pseudomonas aeruginosa using attenuated strains	The present invention relates to a vaccine prepared from an attenuated Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains which are obtained by isolating Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a pure state according to the Fisher-Devlin immunotype and then repeatedly purifying the isolated strain, particularly CFCPA 10142 (KCCM 10029), CFCPA 20215 (KCCM 10030), CFCPA 30720 (KCCM 10031), CFCPA 40057 (KCCM 10032), CFCPA 50243 (KCCM 10033), CFCPA 60534 (KCCM 10034) and CFCPA 70018 (KCCM 10035) strains. In addition, the present invention relates to a process for preparing the vaccine for immunization against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection which contains cell wall proteins having molecular weights ranging from 10,000 to 100,000. The cell wall protein component of the attenuated strain is non-pathogenic and safe, and exhibits excellent antibody formation capacity and is useful for preparation of a vaccine and therapeutic agent. The cell wall proteins exhibit an excellent cross-protective efficacy for various Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains and a superior antibody inducing property.
5866376	Production of oily emulsions mediated by a microbial tenso-active agent	The present invention is directed to biosurfactant stabilized emulsions of high viscosity hydrocarbons such as high viscosity crude oil wherein the biosurfactant is a metabolite of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (USB-CS1) and two methods for making the same. Preferably, the viscosity of the biosurfactant stabilized emulsions is below about 500 centipoise and, more preferably, below about 100 centipoise at ambient temperatures.
5886329	Antibiotic microwave oven	An antibiotic microwave oven for cooking a foodstuff within its cooking chamber utilizing high frequency energy, including an antibiotic layer provided to the cooking chamber for killing bacteria bred within the cooking chamber contaminated by the foodstuff being cooked and for preventing the propagation of harmful microbes. The antibiotic layer is formed of zeolite-Ag, thus killing escherichia coli, salmonella typhimurium, pseudomonas aeruginosa, and bacillus alvei.
5948815	Methods for inhibiting bacterial cytotoxicity	The invention provides methods and compositions for reducing microbial cytotoxicity to a cell, by contacting a cell subject to extracellular microbial cytotoxicity with an effective amount of at least one of genistein or a genistein derivative. In preferred embodiments, the microbe is a gram-negative bacterium, a non-Enterobacteriaceae or a Pseudomonas aeruginosa or cepacia and the host cell is a mammalian epithelial cell, especially a lung epithelial cell or a corneal epithelial cell. The genistein or genistein derivative may be administered prophylactically prior to infection, subsequent thereto and/or in conjunction with conventional antibiotic therapies.
5952188	Reusable immobilized microbial composition useful as ready-to-use seed inoculum in BOD analysis	A reusable immobilized microbial composition is formulated. The formulated microbial composition comprises a synergistic mixture of the bacterial strains of Enterobacter cloaca, Citrobacter amalonaticus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,Yersinia enterocolitica, Klebsiella oxytoca, Enterobacter sakazaki and Serratia liquefaciens. The formulated microbial composition is immobilized on an appropriate immobilizing agent to form beads. The said beads are tested as microbial seeding material for BOD analysis using Glucose Glutamic Acid (GGA) as a reference standard. The obtained BOD values by the formulated beads are compared with BOD values obtained by sewage as seeding material using synthetic samples as well as industrial effluents. The formulated microbial beads are ready-to-use as well as reusable seeding material in BOD analysis. The said beads can be reused up to five times with same efficacy.
5955090	Immunogenic hybrid protein OprF-OprI derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa membrane proteins	The present invention relates to a hybrid protein comprising the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein I (OprI) which is fused with its amino terminal end to the carboxy-terminal end of a carboxy-terminal portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein F (OprF), as well as to monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies against this hybrid protein. Both, the hybrid protein and the antibodies directed to the hybrid protein confer protection against an infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa to laboratory animals or man.
5981519	Vinyl-pyrrolidinone cephalosporins	The present invention relates to compounds having the formula ##STR1## wherein X, R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, and R.sup.7 are as defined herein as well as readily hydrolyzable esters thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds and hydrates of the compounds of formula I and of their esters and salts. These compounds have valuable pharmacological activity for the treatment and prophylaxis of infectious diseases, especially those caused by methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
5990101	Carbapenem derivatives	Novel carbapenem derivatives, represented by the following formula (I), having a substituted or unsubstituted imidazo[5,1-b]thiazolium-6-ylmethyl group at the 2-position are disclosed. The compounds represented by the formula (I) have potent antibacterial activity against a wide spectrum of bacteria from Gram-positive bacteria to Gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and, in addition, have potent antibacterial activity against various .beta.-lactamase-producing bacteria and MRSA and are very stable against DHP-1. ##STR1##
5990266	Degradable polyesters, a mixed culture of microorganisms for degrading these polyesters, and methods for making these substances	Degradable polyesters useful in packaging, packing, agricultural, biomedical, and other applications are made by reacting amine-protected glutamic acid with diols or epoxy compounds. The polyesters include a thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester, a thermoset heterochain polyester and a thermoset heterochain aromatic polyester. Each of these polyesters can be hydrolyzed into monomers using a biological catalyst such as the enzyme lipase. The thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester and the thermoset heterochain polyester can be degraded to respiratory gases and biomass with a mixed culture of Rhizopus, chinesis, Rhizopus delemar, Penecillium pinophilum, Aspergillus niger and Pseudomonas aeruginosa microorganisms. This mixed culture of microorganisms can also be used to degrade other polyesters containing hydrolyzable backbone polyesters.
5994066	Species-specific and universal DNA probes and amplification primers to rapidly detect and identify common bacterial pathogens and associated antibiotic resistance genes from clinical specimens for routine diagnosis in microbiology laboratories	The present invention relates to a method for universal detection of bacteria in biological samples and for specific detection of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterococcus faecalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis and Haemophilus influenzae in urine or any other biological samples, said method comprising denaturation of bacterial DNA to single stranded form and either fixing it on a support or leaving it in solution, contacting said single stranded genetic material with a labeled probe selected from the group consisting of i) fragments of chromosomal DNA of the above-mentioned bacteria and ii) synthetic oligonucleotides whose sequences are derived either from the said fragments of chromosomal DNAs or from sequences available in data banks, all (i and ii) probes being capable to hybridize specifically to their chromosomal DNA or, in case of universal probes, to any bacterial chromosomal DNA.
6001564	Species specific and universal DNA probes and amplification primers to rapidly detect and identify common bacterial pathogens and associated antibiotic resistance genes from clinical specimens for routine diagnosis in microbiology laboratories	The present invention relates to DNA-based methods for universal bacterial detection, for specific detection of the common bacterial pathogens Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis as well as for specific detection of commonly encountered and clinically relevant bacterial antibiotic resistance genes directly from clinical specimens or, alternatively, from a bacterial colony. The above bacterial species can account for as much as 80% of bacterial pathogens isolated in routine microbiology laboratories.
6019905	Process for sanitizing chlorinated water	A method for providing an active sanitized aqueous medium in a dental treatment operation. A chlorinated water supply is treated with a physiologically-safe acidifier to provide a substantially enhanced hypochlorous acid concentration. The water is treated to convert the hypochlorite ion into the much more bacteriocidal undisassociated hypochlorous acid. A reservoir is provided at a suitable location, such as a dental treatment station. Potable water from a suitable source is supplied to the reservoir. The potable water contains free chlorine in an amount of at least 0.1 ppm. The water in the reservoir is treated with a physiologically-safe acidifier selected from the group consisting of inorganic acids, organic acids, and acid esters which have GRAS status. The acidifier is incorporated into the water within the reservoir in an amount sufficient to reduce the pH of the water to a value of about 4 or less to provide a substantially enhanced hypochlorous acid content to eliminate the viability of a mature biofilm produced by the bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A stream of water is delivered to a dental unit used in dental treatment from a source of potable water containing free chlorine in an amount of about 0.1 ppm or above. A physiologically-safe acidifier having GRAS status is incorporated into the water delivered to the dental unit in an amount to reduce the pH of the water delivered to the dental unit to a value of about 4 or less.
6057288	Autoinducer molecule	Autoinducer molecules, e.g., N-(3-oxododecanoyl)homoserine lactone, for Pseudomonas aeruginosa are described. The molecules regulate gene expression in the bacterium. Therapeutic compositions and therapeutic methods involving analogs and/or inhibitors of the autoinducer molecules also are described. The molecules are useful for treating or preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
6060287	Production of oily emulsions mediated by a microbial tenso-active agent	The present invention is directed to methods for preparing biosurfactants for use in stabilizing emulsions of high viscosity hydrocarbons such as high viscosity crude oil wherein the biosurfactant is a metabolite of Pseudomonas Aeruginosa (USB-CS1). The resulting biosurfactant can be used to produce stabilized emulsions having a viscosity of below about 500 centipoise and, more preferably, below about 100 centipoise at ambient temperatures.
6083691	Detection of conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa infecting cystic fibrosis patients	Compositions and methods for detecting the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. Chronic respiratory infections with mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa are the leading cause of high mortality and morbidity in cystic fibrosis. The initially colonizing strains are nonmucoid but in the cystic fibrosis lung they invariably convert into the mucoid form causing further disease deterioration and poor prognosis. Mucoidy is a critical P. aeruginosa virulence factor in cystic fibrosis that has been associated with biofilm development and resistance to phagocytosis. The molecular basis of this conversion to mucoidy is also disclosed. The present invention provides for detecting the switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state as caused by either frameshift deletions and duplications or nonsense changes in the second gene of the cluster, mucA. Inactivation of mucA results in constitutive expression of genes, such as algD, dependent on algU for transcription. Also disclosed is a novel alginate biosynthesis heterologous expression system for use in screening candidate substances that inhibit conversion to mucoidy.
6121033	Degradable polyesters, a mixed culture of microorganisms for degrading these polyesters, and methods for making these substances	Degradable polyesters useful in packaging, packing, agricultural, biomedical, and other applications are made by reacting amine-protected glutamic acid with diols or epoxy compounds. The polyesters include a thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester, a thermoset heterochain polyester and a thermoset heterochain aromatic polyester. Each of these polyesters can be hydrolyzed into monomers using a biological catalyst such as the enzyme lipase. The thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester and the thermoset heterochain polyester can be degraded to respiratory gases and biomass with a mixed culture of Rhizopus chinesis, Rhizopus delemar, Penecillium pinophilum, Aspergillus niger and Pseudomonas aeruginosa microorganisms. This mixed culture of microorganisms can also be used to degrade other polyesters containing hydrolyzable backbone polyesters.
6180622	Imidazo[5,1-b]thiazol-3-yl carbapenem antimicrobials	Compounds of formula (I) and compounds of formula (II) which have potent antimicrobial activity against a wide range of bacteria including Gram-positive bacteria and Gram-negative bacteria as well as heve potent antimicrobial activity against various .beta.-lactamase-producing bacteria, MRSA, and resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa and are very stable against DHP-1. ##STR1##
6191176	Degradable polyesters, a mixed culture of microorganisms for degrading these polyesters, and methods for making these substances	Degradable polyesters useful in packaging, packing, agricultural, biomedical, and other applications are made by reacting amine-protected glutamic acid with diols or epoxy compounds. The polyesters include a thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester, a thermoset heterochain polyester and a thermoset heterochain aromatic polyester. Each of these polyesters can be hydrolyzed into monomers using a biological catalyst such as the enzyme lipase. The thermoplastic main chain aliphatic polyester and the thermoset heterochain polyester can be degraded to respiratory gases and biomass with a mixed culture of Rhizopus chinesis, Rhizopus delemar, Penecillium pinophilum, Aspergillus niger and Pseudomonas aeruginosa microorganisms. This mixed culture of microorganisms can also be used to degrade other polyesters containing hydrolyzable backbone polyesters.
6197814	Disinfectant and method of making	A non-toxic environmentally friendly aqueous disinfectant is disclosed for specific use as prevention against contamination by potentially pathogenic bacteria and virus. The aqueous disinfectant is formulated by electrolytically generating silver ions in water in combination with a citric acid. The aqueous disinfectant may include a suitable alcohol and/or a detergent. The aqueous disinfectant has been shown to be very effective at eliminating standard indicator organisms such as staphylococcus aureus, samonella cholerasuis and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
6242437	Cephem derivatives	A compound represented by the following formula (I) is disclosed. This compound has potent antimicrobial activity against a wide spectrum of bacteria from Gram-positive bacteria to Grame-negative bacteria including .beta.-lactamase producing bacteria. In particular, it has higher antimicrobial activity against methicilline-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (PRSP), and imipenem-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa than the existing onium salt type cephem derivatives and hence is very useful as a therapeutic agent for infectious diseases derived from various pathogenic bacteria. ##STR1## wherein X represents CH or N, R.sup.1 represents a hydrogen atom, substituted or unsubstituted C.sub.1-6 alkyl, C.sub.2-6 alkenyl, C.sub.2-6 alkynyl, or cycloalkyl; any one of R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, and R.sup.5 represents R.sup.6 R.sup.7 NSO.sub.2 NH--C.sub.1-6 alkyl where R.sup.6 and R.sup.7, which may be the same or different, represent a hydrogen atom or C.sub.1-6 alkyl; and n is 0 or 1.
6300102	Immunogenic hybrid protein OprF-Oprl derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa membrane proteins	The present invention relates to a hybrid protein comprising the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein I (OprI) which is fused with its amino terminal end to the carboxy-terminal end of a carboxy-terminal portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein F (OprF), as well as to monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies against this hybrid protein. Both, the hybrid protein and the antibodies directed to the hybrid protein confer protection against an infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa to laboratory animals or man.
6300121	Method for reducing bioavailability of lead by a lead-sequestering soil bacterium	Bioavailability of lead and other heavy metals in the environment may be reduced by addition of microorganisms which sequester lead from the environment in the presence of phosphate. The microorganisms are highly mobile and are, therefore, capable of scavenging a material for lead, which they then sequester. The method basically consists of reducing bioavailability of lead in the environment by addition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain CHL004 (ATCC 55937) to said environment in the presence of phosphate which contains at least stoichiometric equivalent amounts of phosphate to lead.
6309651	Method of and compositions for immunization with the pseudomonas V antigen	A method of inhibiting, moderating or diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is disclosed. In one embodiment, this method comprises inoculating a patient with an effective amount of PcrV antigen.
6310007	7,10,12-trihydroxy-8(E)-octadecenoic acid and derivatives and uses thereof	The compound 7,10,12-trihydroxy-8(E)-octadecenoic acid (TOD) has been produced by bioconversion of ricinoleic acid by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PR3. TOD and derivatives thereof are useful for controlling biological organisms, such as fungi and insects.
6337314	Mammalian-derived peptides for the treatment of microbial infections	The present invention provides compositions useful as antimicrobial agents which include mammalian hemoglobin, the &agr; and &bgr; chains of hemoglobin free of heme, fragments of the &agr; and &bgr; chains that result from cyanogen bromide cleavage of the &agr; and &bgr; chains, and synthetic peptides derived therefrom. The compositions exert antimicrobial activity against both bacteria and fungi that is comparable to known antimicrobial peptides from human neutrophils, cathepsin G and azurocidin. Sensitive organisms include Gram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Gram-positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus faecalis, and the fungus Candida albicans. Methods for preparing the compositions also are provided.
6342233	Pseudomonas treatment composition and method	A composition and method for treating or preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is disclosed. The composition includes a P. aeruginosa pilin peptide modified to prevent oligomerization of the pilin. The method involves administered the composition to a person infected with Pseudomonas are at risk of such infection.
6379712	Nanosilver-containing antibacterial and antifungal granules and methods for preparing and using the same	The present invention relates to nanosilver-containing antibacterial and antifungal granules (&#8220;NAGs&#8221;). The NAGs have longlasting inhibitory effect on a broad-spectrum of bacteria and fungi, which include, but are not limited to, Escherichia coli, Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, Chlamydia trachomatis, Providencia stuartii, Vibrio vulnificus, Pneumobacillus, Nitrate-negative bacillus, Staphylococcus aureus, Candida albicans, Bacillus cloacae, Bacillus allantoides, Morgan's bacillus (Salmonella morgani), Pseudomonas maltophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus foecalis alkaligenes, Streptococcus hemolyticus B, Citrobacter, and Salmonella paratyphi C. The NAGs contain ground stalk marrow of the plant Juncus effusus L. which has been dispersed with nanosilver particles. The nanosilver particles are about 1-100 nm in diameter. Each of the nanosilver particles contain a metallic silver core which is surrounded by silver oxide. The present invention also provides a process for making the NAGs. The NAGs can be used in a variety of healthcare and industrial products. Examples of the healthcare products include, but are not limited to, ointments or lotions to treat skin trauma, soaking solutions or cleansing solutions for dental or women hygiene, medications for treating gastrointestinal bacteria infections, sexual related diseases, and eye diseases. Examples of industrial products include, but are not limited to, food preservatives, water disinfectants, paper disinfectants, construction filling materials (to prevent mold formation).
6406882	Immobilized microbial consortium for the treatment of phenolic waste-water from petroleum refineries	An immobilized microbial consortium is formulated which comprises of a synergistic mixture of all the bacterial strains of Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Bacillus circulans, Yersinia enterocolitica, Enterobacter cloaca and Bacillus brevis. The formulated microbial consortium is immobilized on a non-biodegradable and economically cheaper support. The said immobilized microbial consortium is used for the biodegradation of synthetic phenol as well as phenol present in petroleum refinery effluent. The results of biodegradation obtained with the microbial consortium immobilized on coconut fiber are compared with those obtained with microbial consortium immobilized on well known support. The coconut fiber used for immobilization proved to be a better support than a well known support such as calcium alginate.
6413405	Active carbon electro-deposited with Ag-I system having sterilizing effect	An environmentally functional active carbon and its method of manufacturing is provided. The active carbon has improved adsorption capability against disease-source bacteria and microbes with prominent anti-bacterial and sterilizing effect as well as against organic and inorganic contaminants due to the process of electro-depositing Ag&#8212;I to the surface of active carbon and active carbon fiber. This invention creates functional active carbon having outstanding sterilizing effect for disease-source bacteria from known bacteria such as Gram positive bacteria including Staphylococcus, Bacillus subtillis and Gram negative bacteria including Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas Aeruginosa, Klebsiella Pneumonie, Candida Albicans causing albicans as yeast fungus, Trichophyton interdigital causing athlete's foot as a kind of mold.
6426187	Detection of conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa infecting cystic fibrosis patients	Compositions and methods for detecting the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. Chronic respiratory infections with mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa are the leading cause of high mortality and morbidity in cystic fibrosis. The initially colonizing strains are nonmucoid but in the cystic fibrosis lung they invariably convert into the mucoid form causing further disease deterioration and poor prognosis. Mucoidy is a critical P. aeruginosa virulence factor in cystic fibrosis that has been associated with biofilm develoment and resistance to phagocytosis. The molecular basis of this conversion to mucoidy is also disclosed. The present invention provides for detecting the switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state as caused by either frameshift deletions and duplications or nonsense changes in the second gene of the cluster, mucA. Inactivation of mucA results in constitutive expression of genes, such as algD, dependent on algU for transcription. Also disclosed is a novel alginate biosynthesis heterologous expression system for use in screening candidate substances that inhibit conversion to mucoidy.
6458780	Carbapenem derivatives	Disclosed is a novel carbapenem derivative having a substituted imidazo[5,1-b]thiazole group at the 2-position on the carbapenem ring have high anti-microbial activities against &bgr;-lactamase producing bacteria, MRSA, resistant-Pseudomonas aeruginosa, PRSP, enterococci, and influenza, and high stabilities to DHP-1. According to the present invention, there is provided a compound represented by the formula (I), or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof or an ester at the 3-position on the carbapenem ring thereof:
6495512	Salicylaldehyde-containing composition having antimicrobial and fragrancing properties and process for using same	Described are synergistic antimicrobial-fragrance compositions including broad spectrum antimicrobial compositions containing salicylaldehyde and at least one organoleptically-compatible antimicrobial synergism cofactor substance. The weight ratio range of salicylaldehyde:synergism cofactors substance is from 1:10 up to 10:1. The cofactor substance is such that the degree of synergism of the resultant mixture is defined according to the IFF Antimicrobial Synergism Test wherein the difference between the actual and expected antimicrobial values of the mixture is greater than or equal to a multiple of (i) 0.05 and (ii) the expected antimicrobial value of the mixture. Cofactor substances include phenolics such as cresol, caravacrol and thymol; ethyl vanillin; benzyl alcohol; indol; &bgr;-orcinol; and terpinenol-4. Microorganisms against which the synergistic compositions are effective include:Escherichia coli; Enterococcus hirae; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Staphylococcus aureus; andSaccharomyces cerevisae. The compositions have application in all-purpose cleaning compositions, gel-type toilet rim articles, liquid-type toilet rim articles, personal shower cleaning compositions, and body and hair care products including shower gel compositions, shampoo compositions and foam bath compositions.
6511822	Immobilized microbial consortium useful for rapid and reliable BOD estimation	An immobilized microbial consortium is formulated which comprises of a synergistic mixture of isolated bacteria namely, Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Yersinia enterocolitica, Serratia liquefaciens, Pseudomonas fluoresces, Enterobacter cloaca, Klebsiella oxytoca, Citrobacter amalonaticus and Enterobacter sakazaki. The formulated microbial consortium is immobilized on charged nylon membrane. The said immobilized microbial consortium is attached to dissolved oxygen probe for the preparation of electrode assembly. The prepared electrode assembly is used for rapid and reliable BOD estimation. The prepared electrode assembly is used for monitoring of BOD load of synthetic samples such as Glucose-Glutamic acid (GGA) used as a reference standard in BOD analysis and industrial effluents; covering a range from low to high biodegradable organic matter.
6531133	Pseudomonas exotoxin-myelin basic protein chimeric proteins	A chimeric protein comprising a Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin (PE) moiety linked to a myelin basic protein (MBP) moiety is disclosed. The MBP moiety is selected from the group comprising: (a) MBP; (b) amino acids 69-88 of guinea-pig myelin basic protein or an antigenic portion thereof; (c) amino acids 84-102 of human myelin basic protein or an antigenic portion thereof; (d) amino acids 143-168 of human myelin basic protein or an antigenic portion thereof; and (e) an amino acid sequence in which one or more amino acids have been deleted, added, substituted or mutated in the amino acid sequences of (a), (b), (c) or (d), the modified sequence of (e) retaining at least 75% homology with the amino acid sequences of (a), (b), (c) or (d), respectively. Each of the MBP moieties of (b), (c) and (d) are linked to the PE moiety by a pentapeptide linker repeated 1-3 times. The chimeric protein is useful in treating autoimmune diseases, and especially multiple sclerosis.
6531293	Immobilized microbial consortium useful for rapid and reliable BOD estimation	An immobilized microbial consortium is formulated which comprises of a synergistic mixture of isolated bacteria namely, Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Yersinia enterocolitica, Serratia liquefaciens, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Enterobacter cloaca, Klebsiella oxytoca, Citrobacter amalonaticus and Enterobacter sakazaki. The formulated microbial consortium is immobilized on charged nylon membrane. The said immobilized microbial consortium is attached to dissolved oxygen probe for the preparation of electrode assembly. The prepared electrode assembly is used for rapid and reliable BOD estimation. The prepared electrode assembly is used for monitoring of BOD load of synthetic samples such as Glucose-Glutamic acid (GGA) used as a reference standard in BOD analysis and industrial effluents; covering a range from low to high biodegradable organic matter.
6541007	Vaccine for Pseudomonas aeruginosa	A C-terminal pilin peptide vaccine for immunizing or treating a patient for infection by a Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) infection is disclosed. The peptide comprises the peptide identified as SEQ ID NOS. 3-6; and a carrier protein conjugated to the peptide. Also disclosed is a pilin peptide C-terminal PA pilin peptide having the amino acid sequence identified as SEQ ID NO:3, and analogs thereof having one of residues T, K, or A at position 130, D, T, or N at position 132, Q, A, or V at position 133, E, P, N, or A at position 135, Q, M, or K at position 136, and I, T, L, or R at position 138, excluding SEQ ID NOS: 1, 2, 9, 10, and 11, and the ability to cross-react with antibodies against the corresponding C-terminal peptides from PA strains PAK and PAO.
6551795	Nucleic acid and amino acid sequences relating to pseudomonas aeruginosa for diagnostics and therapeutics	The invention provides isolated polypeptide and nucleic acid sequences derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa that are useful in diagnosis and therapy of pathological conditions; antibodies against the polypeptides; and methods for the production of the polypeptides. The invention also provides methods for the detection, prevention and treatment of pathological conditions resulting from bacterial infection.
6565868	Methods for microbiological control in aqueous systems	Microbiological control in water systems is achieved with an amount,of 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin that is less than the amount of N,N&#8242;-bromochloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin required to achieve the same degree of microbiological control. The methods of combating Escherichia coli and/or Enterococcus faecium in an aqueous medium, and biofilms such as formed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa on surfaces contacted by the aqueous medium, involve introducing into the medium a biocidally effective amount of 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin. A microbiological control agent for use in water in accordance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations is purveyed in containers of a water control agent comprising 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin, which containers bear a label having thereon dosage levels pursuant to requirements promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin is used or purveyed either as a product having a large average particle size (e.g., 175 microns or more) or in the form of a compacted product. The compacted product can be formed without using a binder where the average particle size of the 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin is about 175 microns or more. Alternatively, the compacted product can be formed using a micronized synthetic polyolefin-based hydrocarbon wax and/or a micronized synthetic polyfluorocarbon wax as a binder, provided the wax is compatible with the 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin. In this case, the average particle size can be in the range of about 20-600 microns. Similarly, the compacted product can be a product formed from 1,3-dibromo-5,5-dimethylhydantoin having an average particle size of at least 175 microns, using an amount of a saturated, normally solid, fatty amide as the binder.
6583176	Aqueous disinfectant	A non-toxic environmentally friendly aqueous disinfectant is disclosed for specific use as prevention against contamination by potentially pathogenic bacteria and virus. The aqueous disinfectant is formulated by electrolytically generating silver ions in water in combination with a citric acid. The aqueous disinfectant may include a suitable alcohol and/or a detergent. The aqueous disinfectant has been shown to be very effective at eliminating standard indicator organisms such as staphylococcus aureus, salmonella cholerasuis and pseudomonas aeruginosa.
6596520	Immobilizing lipase by adsorption from a crude solution onto nonpolar polyolefin particles	Immobilized lipase is prepared by adsorbing lipase from a crude lipase solution onto polyolefin particles such as polypropylene particles which are nonpolar. The crude solution may be a cell-free culture broth. Lipase sources include Pseudomonas burkholderia and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Uses of the immobilized lipase include enantioselective conversion of substrates such as enantioselective acylating or hydrolyzing.
6638904	Salicylaldehyde-containing composition having antimicrobial and fragrancing properties and process for using same	Described are synergistic antimicrobial-fragrance compositions including broad spectrum antimicrobial compositions containing salicylaldehyde and at least one organoleptically-compatible antimicrobial synergism cofactor substance. The weight ratio range of salicylaldehyde:synergism cofactors substance is from 1:10 up to 10:1. The cofactor substance is such that the degree of synergism of the resultant mixture is defined according to the IFF Antimicrobial Synergism Test wherein the difference between the actual and expected antimicrobial values of the mixture is greater than or equal to a multiple of (i) 0.05 and (ii) the expected antimicrobial value of the mixture. Cofactor substances include phenolics such as cresol, caravacrol and thymol; ethyl vanillin; benzyl alcohol; indol; &bgr;-orcinol; and terpinenol-4. Microorganisms against which the synergistic compositions are effective include:Escherichia coli; Enterococcus hirae; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Staphylococcus aureus; andSaccharomyces cerevisae. The compositions have application in all-purpose cleaning compositions, gel-type toilet rim articles, liquid-type toilet rim articles, personal shower cleaning compositions, and body and hair care products including shower gel compositions, shampoo compositions and foam bath compositions.
6660249	Inhalable dry powder aztreonam for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
6660494	Detection of microbial metabolites	Chromogenic 3-Indoxyl choline phosphate compounds of formula (I): wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and C1-4 alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl while R1, R2, R3, and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, cyano, nitro, carboxy, amino, amino substituted with one or two C1-4 alkyl groups, aminomethyl, hydroxy, C1-4 alkoxy, carboxyalkyl, and sulphonyl. These compounds are capable of being cleaved by lecithinase C leading to products which are calorimetrically detectable. The invention provides safe and sensitive detection of potentially pathogenic bacterial activity of such microbes as Clostridium perfringens, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus anthracis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Listeria monocytogenes, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila, and others in material which may contain such activity typically including physiological samples, goods for consumption, such as food and beverages, and any other potentially infected objects or articles.
6664045	PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits pertaining to the detection of microorganisms	This invention is related to novel PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits pertaining to the detection of microorganisms. The probes, probe sets, methods and kits of this invention can be used to detect, identify or quantitate one or more organisms in a sample wherein the organisms are selected from the group consisting of E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas cepatia, Pseudomonas fluorescens or organisms of a bacterial genus including the Salmonella genus, Bacillus genus or Pseudomonas genus. The preferred probing nucleobase sequence of the PNA probes used to detect the bacteria listed above are TCA-ATG-AGC-AAA-GGT (E. coli); GCT-TCT-CGT-CCG-TTC (Staphylococcus aureus); CTG-AAT-CCA-GGA-GCA and AAC-TTG-CTG-AAC-CAC (Pseudomonas aeruginosa); CCA-TCG-CAT-CTA-ACA (Pseudomonas cepatia); TCT-AGT-CAG-TCA-GTT (Pseudomonas fluorescens); CCG-ACT-TGA-CAG-ACC and CCT-GCC-AGT-TTC-GAA (Salmonella genus); CTT-TGT-TCT-GTC-CAT (Bacillus genus); GCT-GGC-CTA-GCC-TTC, GTC-CTC-CTT-GCG-GTT and TTC-TCA-TCC-GCT-CGA (Pseudomonas genus). The PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits of this invention are particularly well suited for use in multiplex PNA-FISH assays.
6677331	Carbapenem derivatives	Disclosed is a novel carbapenem derivative having a substituted imidazo[5,1-b]thiazole group at the 2-position on the carbapenem ring have high anti microbial activities against &bgr;-lactamase producing bacteria, MRSA, resistant-Pseudomonas aeruginosa, PRSP, enterococci, and influenza, and high stabilities to DHP-1. According to the present invention, there is provided a compound represented by the formula (I), or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof or an ester at the 3-position on the carbapenem ring thereof:
6709853	Process for the preparation of cell beads BOD sensor useful for instant BOD estimation	Immobilized cell beads incorporating formulated microbial consortium comprising a synergistic mixture of the following bacterial strains namely, Enterobacter sakazaki, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas sobria selected from the following isolated bacterial strains namely, Yersinia enterocolitica, Aeromonas sobria, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Serratia liquefaciens, Enterobacter sakazaki, Citrobacter amalonaticus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter cloaca, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus are prepared, the formulated microbial consortium is immobilized in an appropriate immobilizing agent resulting in the formation of beads and the beads are used for instant BOD estimation using an electronic device and the formulated cell beads are reusable and are capable of assimilating most of the organic matter present in varied industrial effluents.
6767545	Pseudomonas treatment composition and method	A composition and method for treating or preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is disclosed. The composition includes a P. aeruginosa pilin peptide modified to prevent oligomerization of the pilin. The method involves administered the composition to a person infected with Pseudomonas are at risk of such infection.
6797275	Method of immunizing humans against Salmonella typhi using a Vi-rEPA conjugate vaccine	This invention relates to conjugates of the Vi polysaccharide of S. typhi with the carrier Pseudomonas aeruginosa recombinant exoprotein A (rEPA), and compositions thereof, and to methods of using of these conjugates and/or compositions thereof for eliciting an immunogenic response in humans, including responses which provide protection against, or reduce the severity of, S. typhi bacterial infections. The conjugates, and compositions thereof, are useful as vaccines to induce serum antibodies againt S. typhi and are useful to prevent and/or treat illnesses caused by S. typhi.
6827935	Method of and compositions for immunization with the pseudomonas V antigen	A method of inhibiting, moderating or diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is disclosed. In one embodiment, this method comprises inoculating a patient with an effective amount of PcrV antigen.
6861516	MraY gene and enzyme of pseudomonas aeruginosa	Polynucleotides and polypeptides of Pseudomonas aeruginosa MraY, an enzyme involved in bacterial cell wall biosynthesis, are provided. The recombinant MraY enzyme is catalytically active in the first step of the membrane cycle of peptidoglycan biosynthesis. Also provided are proteins encoded by the sequences, host cells expressing the recombinant enzyme, and probes and primers.
6870041	MurE protein and gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa	This invention provides isolated polynucleotides that encode the MurE protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Purified and isolated MurE recombinant proteins are also provided. Nucleic acid sequences which encode functionally active MurE proteins are described. Assays for the identification of modulators of the of expression of murE and inhibitors of the activity of MurE, are also provided.
6890910	Murd protein and gene of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	This invention provides isolated polynucleotides that encode the MurD protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Purified and isolated MurD recombinant proteins are also provided. Nucleic acid sequences which encode functionally active MurD proteins are described. Assays for the identification of modulators of the of expression of murD and inhibitors of the activity of MurD, are also provided.
6893817	Amino acid sequences and method for isolating bacteries from the type genus pseudomonas	The present invention relates to a nucleic acid molecule or molecules and to a process for the detection of bacteria of the Pseudomonas genus, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The invention relates also to a test kit or kits for carrying out the said detection processes.
6905841	Enzymatic substrates for detecting Pseudomonas aeruginas	An enzyme substrate which includes a target portion and a marker portion, hydrolysis of the substrate leading to separation of the target portion from the marker portion, and the target portion being specific for the enzyme activity being assayed. A formulation containing at least one such substrate, and a method for detecting the bacterial species Pseudomonas aeruginosa is also disclosed. The target portion of the substrate is specific for β-alanine aminopeptidase activity and the marker portion is a compound which reveals whether a hydrolysis reaction has taken place or not. The invention is particularly applicable in the field of diagnosis.
6919079	FcεPE chimeric protein for targeted treatment of allergy responses, a method for its production and pharmaceutical compositions containing the same	The present invention generally relates to a new approach for the therapy of allergic responses, based on targeted elimination of cells expressing the FcεRI receptor by a chimeric cytotoxin Fc2′-3-PE40. A sequence encoding amino acids 301-437 of the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule was genetically fused to PE40—a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The chimeric protein, produced in E. coli, specifically and efficiently kills mouse mast cell lines expressing the FcεRI receptor, as well as primary mast cells derived from bone marrow. The present invention provides a chimeric protein for targeted elimination of FcεRI expressing cells especially useful for the therapy of allergic responses. The said chimeric protein is comprised of a cell targeting moiety for FcεRI expressing cells and a cell killing moiety. The preferred killing moiety is the bacterial toxin Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE). This Pseudomonas exotoxin is a product of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The present invention also relates to a method for the preparation of said protein. This chimeric protein is prepared by genetically fusing the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule to PE40, a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions, for the treatment of allergic diseases and for the treatment of hyperplasias and malignancies, comprising as an active ingredient the above mentioned chimeric protein and a conventional adjuvant product.
6936263	Th1 inducing natural adjuvant for heterologous antigens	The present invention relates to the use of the major OprI lipoprotein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa to elicit a Type-1 immune response towards a heterologous antigen. The invention relates specifically to the use of OprI—antigen fusion proteins to elicit the Type-1 response. More particularly, the present invention is directed to pharmaceutical formulations comprising OprI and/or OprI fusion proteins, optionally together with a suitable excipient, to stimulate the Th1 dependent, cellular immune response.
6936447	Autoinducer molecule	Autoinducer molecules, e.g., N-(3-oxododecanoyl)homoserine lactone, for Pseudomonas aeruginosa are described. The molecules regulate gene expression in the bacterium. Therapeutic compositions and therapeutic methods involving analogs and/or inhibitors of the autoinducer molecules also are described. The molecules are useful for treating or preventing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
6949336	Murf gene and enzyme of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	This invention provides isolated polynucleotides that encode the MurF (UDP-N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanine-D-glutamate-m-DaD:D-alanine-D-alanine ligase) protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Purified and isolated MurF recombinant proteins are also provided. Nucleic acid sequences which encode functionally active MurF proteins are described. Assays for the identification of modulators of the expression of murF and inhibitors of the activity of MurF, are also provided.
6974680	Virulence genes, proteins, and their use	A series of genes from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella are shown to encode products that are implicated in virulence. The identification of these genes therefore allows attenuated microorganisms to be produced. Furthermore, the genes or their encoded products can be used to identify antimicrobial drugs, diagnostic methods for the identification of a pathogen-associated disease, and in the manufacture of vaccines.
6987094	Optimized formulation of tobramycin for aerosolization	The invention provides a tobramycin formulation for delivery by aerosolization in the form of additive-free, isotonic solution whose pH has been optimised to ensure adequate shelf-life at room temperature. Said formulation can be advantageously used for the treatment and prophylaxis of acute and chronic endobronchial infections, in particular those caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated to lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis.
6998109	Emu-based formulations with lidocaine for wound treatment by inhibiting microbial activity	The present formulation is an analgesic, anesthetic and anti-pruritic formulation with from about 10.0 wt % to about 75.0 wt % Emu oil; from about 10.0 wt % to about 33.0 wt % benzyl alcohol; from about 0.25 wt % to about 5.0 wt % allantoin; from about 0.1 wt % to about 5.0 wt % methylparaben; from about 0.1 wt % to about 2.0 wt % propylparaben; and from about 0.5 wt % to about 4.0 wt % of lidocaine, wherein the formulation is adapted to inhibit microbial activity from Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Bacillus cereus, Candida albicans, Streptococcus agalactiae or combinations thereof, and wherein the lidocaine relieves pain on the epidermis of humans and animals of skin irritations, wounds, or burns.
7022829	MurC gene and enzyme of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	This invention provides isolated polynucleotides that encode the MurC protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Purified and isolated MurC recombinant proteins are also provided. Nucleic acid sequences which encode functionally active MurC proteins are described. Assays for the identification of modulators of the of expression of murC and inhibitors of the activity of MurC, are also provided.
7052901	Bacteria-based and enzyme-based mechanisms and products for viscosity reduction breaking of viscoelastic fluids	It has been discovered that fluids viscosified with viscoelastic surfactants (VESs) may have their viscosities reduced (gels broken) by the direct or indirect action of a biochemical agent, such as bacteria, fungi, and/or enzymes. The biochemical agent may directly attack the VES itself, or some other component in the fluid that produces a by-product that then causes viscosity reduction. The biochemical agent may disaggregate or otherwise attack the micellar structure of the VES-gelled fluid. The biochemical agent may produce an enzyme that reduces viscosity by one of these mechanisms. A single biochemical agent may operate simultaneously by two different mechanisms, such as by degrading the VES directly, as well as another component, such as a glycol, the latter mechanism in turn producing a by-product (e.g. an alcohol) that causes viscosity reduction. Alternatively, two or more different biochemical agents may be used simultaneously. In a specific, non-limiting instance, a brine fluid gelled with an amine oxide surfactant can have its viscosity broken with bacteria such as Enterobacter cloacae, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the like.
7175850	Formulation for topical non-invasive application in vivo	A formulation comprising molecular arrangements capable of penetrating pores in a barrier, owing to penetrant adaptability, despite the fact that the average diameter of said pores is smaller than the average penetrant diameter, provided that the penetrants can transport agents or else enable agent permeation through the pores after penetrants have entered pores, characterized in that the formulation comprises at least one consistency builder in an amount that increases the formulation to maximally 5 Nm/s so that spreading over, and retention at, the application area is enabled and/or at least one antioxidant in an amount that reduces the increase of oxidation index to less than 100% per 6 months and/or at least one microbicide in an amount that reduces the bacterial count of 1 million germs added per g of total mass of the formulation to less than 100 in the case of aerobic bacteria, to less than 10 in the case of entero-bacteria, and to less than 1 in the case of Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Staphilococcus aureus, after a period of 4 days.
7208141	Inhalable aztreonam aerosol for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
7214364	Inhalable aztreonam lysinate formulation for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam lysinate delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
7214392	Process and composition for inhibiting growth of microorganisms	A natural preservative composition obtained from plant materials provides antimicrobial activity for various compositions such as a food composition. The antimicrobial agent is effective in inhibiting the growth of gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus, gram-negative Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, acid-fast bacterium Mycobacterium smegmatis, the yeast Candida albicans. The antimicrobial agent has a MIC of 3.0 μl/ml capable of inhibiting these organisms. The antimicrobial agent includes mixtures of Origanum vulgare L., Thymus vulgaris L., Cinnamomum zeylanicum Nees, Rosmarinum officinalis L., Lavandula officinalis L., Hydrastis canadensis L. and olive leaf extract. The antimicrobial agent is an effective natural alternative to commonly used synthetic ingredients for product preservation.
7229447	Photodynamic therapy utilizing a solution of photosensitizing compound and surfactant	The invention relates to a method of photoeradication of cells at a tissue site, such as an infection or sterilization site or cancer cell activity site, including applying a solution such as methylene blue, toluidene blue, polymyxin B, SDS, or other surfactants and combinations thereof to the tissue site and exposing the tissue site with a light having a light wavelength and light dosage and a light dosage rate. The solution may have a concentration of methylene blue between 5 μg/ml to about 100 μg/ml. The wavelength may range from about 610 nm to about 670 nm. The light dosage may range from about 0 J/cm2 to about 200 J/cm2. The light dosage rate may range from about 0 mw/cm2 to about 150 mw/cm2. Treatable organisms include candida albicans, escherechia coli, pseudomonas aeruginosa, staphylococcus aureus, streptococcus pneumoniae, and clostridia.
7261905	Disinfectant and method of making	A non-toxic environmentally friendly aqueous disinfectant is disclosed for specific use as prevention against contamination by potentially pathogenic bacteria and virus. The aqueous disinfectant is formulated by electrolytically generating silver ions in water in combination with a citric acid. The aqueous disinfectant may include a suitable alcohol and/or a detergent. The aqueous disinfectant has been shown to be very effective at eliminating standard indicator organisms such as staphylococcus aureus, salmonella cholerasuis and pseudomonas aeruginosa.
7301010	Compositions and methods for treating HIV infection with cupredoxin and cytochrome c	The present invention relates to cupredoxin, specifically Pseudomonas aeruginosa azurin, and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa cytochrome C551 and their use in inhibiting of viral infection, and in particular infection of mammalian cells by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to variants and derivatives of cupredoxin and cytochrome c that retain the ability to inhibit viral infection, and in particular infection by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to research methods for studying viral and bacterial infection in mammalian cells.
7335352	Method of identifying agents that inhibit quorum sensing activity of gamma-proteobacteria	Screening assays that allow for the identification of agents that increase acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) acylase expression and/or AHL acylase activity in γ-proteobacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Such agents are useful, for example, for inhibiting quorum sensing activity of such bacteria by increasing degradation of long chain, but not short chain, AHLs and, therefore, can be useful for treating infections by such bacteria.
7427633	Inhalable aztreonam lysinate formulation for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam lysinate delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
7429478	Microbial consortium useful as seeding material for BOD analysis of pulp and paper industrial wastewater	The present invention provides a seeding material for accurate and reproducible monitoring of BOD load of pulp and paper wastewater, wherein the bacteria are isolated from various locations in India and comprise Micrococcus sp., Staphylococcus sp., Kurthia zopfii, Alcaligenes faecalis, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the microbial composition being capable of exerting an appropriate BOD for pulp and paper industrial wastewater due to the specificity of bacterial strains present therein towards the refractory organic compounds found in these effluents.
7459165	Polypeptides of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The present invention relates to polypeptides of Pseudomonas aeruginosa which may be used to prevent, diagnose and/or treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.
7494653	Method and compositions for immunization with the Pseudomonas V antigen	A method of inhibiting, moderating or diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is disclosed. In one embodiment, this method comprises inoculating a patient with an effective amount of PcrV antigen.
7511117	Compositions and methods for treating HIV infection with cupredoxin and cytochrome c	The present invention relates to cupredoxin, specifically Pseudomonas aeruginosa azurin, and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa cytochrome c551 and their use in inhibiting of viral infection, and in particular infection of mammalian cells by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to variants and derivatives of cupredoxin and cytochrome c that retain the ability to inhibit viral infection, and in particular infection by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to research methods for studying viral and bacterial infection in mammalian cells.
7517533	Pseudomonas aeruginosa antigens	Proteins derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa are antigenic and are of use in the treatment, prophylaxis and diagnosis of P. aeruginosa infection.
7517684	Nucleic acid and amino acid sequences relating to Pseudomonas aeruginosa for diagnostics and therapeutics	The invention provides isolated polypeptide and nucleic acid sequences derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa that are useful in diagnosis and therapy of pathological conditions; antibodies against the polypeptides; and methods for the production of the polypeptides. The invention also provides methods for the detection, prevention and treatment of pathological conditions resulting from bacterial infection.
7517980	Glycomimetric inhibitors of the PA-IL lectin, PA-IIL lectin or both the lectins from Pseudomonas	Compositions and methods are provided related to Pseudomonas bacteria. The compositions and methods may be used for diagnosis and therapy of medical conditions involving infection with Pseudomonas bacteria. Such infections include Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis. A compound useful in the present methods may be used in combination with a therapeutic agent or may be linked to a therapeutic agent. Pseudomonas bacteria may be inhibited by blocking colonization, inhibiting virulence factors, arresting growth or killing the bacteria.
7531650	Cephalosporin salts in crystalline form	The present invention relates to cephalosporin of formula (I) in crystalline form. The compound of formula (I) in crystalline form is useful as antibiotics having potent and broad antibacterial activity; especially against methicillin resistant Staphylococci (MRSA) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
7553626	Primer set capable of specifically amplifying a target sequence found in 10 bacterial species and probe oligonucleotide specifically hybridizable with each target sequence of the 10 bacterial species	Provided are a primer set for amplifying a target sequence specific to Bordetella pertussis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Moraxella catarrhalis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stapylococcus aureus, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, the primer set including at least one oligonucleotide of 10 to 100 nucleotides in length, selected from the group consisting of oligonucleotides each of which comprises a fragment of at least 10 contiguous nucleotides present in a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 and at least one oligonucleotides of 10 to 100 nucleotides in length, selected from the group consisting of oligonucleotides each of which comprises a fragment of at least 10 contiguous nucleotides present in a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2; and probes specific to a specific species of the 10 bacterial species.
7582604	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antibacterial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formula (I), wherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depend on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuff, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments or treat or prevent infections. In a specific embodiment, the template is based on the D-Pro-L-Pro dipeptide. These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
7611714	Methods and compositions for immunizing against Pseudomonas infection	Methods and compositions for inducing an immune response against Pseudomonas aeruginosa are provided herein. In one aspect, the invention provides a chimeric immunogen, comprising a receptor binding domain, a translocation domain, and a Pseudomonas pilin peptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is TAADGLWKCTSDQDEQFIPKGCSK (SEQ ID NO.:1), wherein the chimeric immunogen, when administered to a subject, induces an immune response in said subject that is effective to reduce adherence of a microorganism that expresses said Pseudomonas pilin peptide to epithelial cells of said subject. In other aspects, the invention provides nucleic acids encoding chimeric immunogens of the invention, kits comprising chimeric immunogens of the invention, cells expressing chimeric immunogens of the invention, and methods of using chimeric immunogens of the invention.
7618939	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin(s), and/or variants, derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins, that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues or animals. These compositions may be peptides or pharmaceutical compositions, among others. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
7622293	Pseudomonas aeruginosa: bacteriophage and uses thereof	The present invention is directed to isolated bacteriophage having strong lytic activity against strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and methods of using that bacteriophage, and/or progeny or derivatives derived therefrom, to control the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in various settings.
7629141	Essential and important genes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the use thereof to design or identify antibacterial agents	The invention includes a database of candidate essential genes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, as well as other important genes that, when mutated, lead to a growth attenuated phenotype. Such genes and mutants of such genes are important for identifying antibacterial agents suitable for treating and preventing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections. The invention includes methods for confirming the essentiality or importance of candidate genes, as well as methods for utilizing those genes to screen for new antibacterial drugs. The invention also includes the antibacterial agents identified using the disclosed methods, as well as methods of using the same for treating and preventing Pseudomonas infection.
7696178	Optimised formulation of tobramycin for aerosolization	The invention provides a tobramycin formulation for delivery by aerosolization in the form of additive-free, isotonic solution whose pH has been optimised to ensure adequate shelf-life at room temperature. Said formulation can be advantageously used for the treatment and prophylaxis of acute and chronic endobronchial infections, in particular those caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated to lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis.
7700729	Modified bacteriocins and methods for their use	Modified forms of naturally occurring bacteriocins, such as the R-type pyocins of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are disclosed as are methods for producing them in GRAS organisms. The bacteriocins are modified at the ends of their tail fibers in a region responsible for binding specificity and affinity to their cognate binding partners, or receptors, such as those on the surface of bacteria. Methods for the use of the modified bacteriocins, such as to bind receptors, including virulence or fitness factors, on the surfaces of bacteria, are also described.
7704506	Fcε-PE chimeric protein for targeted treatment of allergy responses a method for its production and pharmaceutical compositions containing the same	The present invention generally relates to a new approach for the therapy of allergic responses, based on targeted elimination of cells expressing the FcεRI receptor by a chimeric cytotoxin FC2′-3-PE40. A sequence encoding amino acids 301-437 of the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule was genetically fused to PE40—a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The chimeric protein, produced in E. coli, specifically and efficiently kills mouse mast cell lines expressing the FcεRI receptor, as well as primary mast cells derived from bone marrow. The present invention provides a chimeric protein for targeted elimination of FcεRI expressing cells especially useful for the therapy of allergic responses. The said chimeric protein is comprised of a cell targeting moiety for FcεRI expressing cells and a cell killing moiety. The preferred killing moiety is the bacterial toxin Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE). This Pseudomonas exotoxin is a product of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The present invention also relates to a method for the preparation of said protein. This chimeric protein is prepared by genetically fusing the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule to PE40, a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions, for the treatment of allergic diseases and for the treatment of hyperplasias and malignancies, comprising as an active ingredient the above mentioned chimeric protein and a conventional adjuvant product.
7732586	Modified bacteriocins and methods for their use	Modified forms of naturally occurring bacteriocins, such as the R-type pyocins of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are disclosed. The bacteriocins are modified at the ends of their tail fibers in a region responsible for binding specificity and affinity to their cognate binding partners, or receptors, such as those on the surface of bacteria. Methods for the use of the modified bacteriocins, such as to bind receptors, including virulence or fitness factors, on the surfaces of bacteria, are also described.
7736879	Process for bio-bleaching of kraft pulp using bacterial consortia	The present invention relates to an environment friendly, safe, and efficient four-step method of bio-bleaching Kraft pulp using the following strains of bacteria: (a) Serratia marcescens, MTCC 5094, (b) Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5095, (c) Providencia rettgeri, MTCC 5096, (d) Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5098. The present invention also provides a microbial consortium comprising a synergistic mixture of ligninolytic bacterial isolates Serratia marcescens, MTCC 5094, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5095, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5098, or comprising bacterial strains Providencia rettgeri, MTCC 5096, Serratia marcescens, MTCC 5094, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5095, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5098, and a process for preparing an inoculum of the bacterial isolate Providencia rettgeri, MTCC 5096. Also provided is a process for the preparation of a consortium comprising the ligninolytic bacterial isolates Serratia marcescens, MTCC 5094, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5095, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, MTCC 5098, as well as a process for the preparation of a pulp suspension for bio-bleaching.
7740853	Fcepsilon-pe chimeric protein for targeted treatment of allergy responses a method for its production and pharmaceutical compositions containing the same	The present invention generally relates to a new approach for the therapy of allergic responses, based on targeted elimination of cells expressing the FcεRI receptor by a chimeric cytotoxin Fc2′-3-PE40. A sequence encoding amino acids 301-437 of the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule was genetically fused to PE40′—a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The chimeric protein, produced in E. coli, specifically and efficiently kills mouse mast cell lines expressing the FcεRI receptor, as well as primary mast cells derived from bone marrow. The present invention provides a chimeric protein for targeted elimination of FcεRI expressing cells especially useful for the therapy of allergic responses. The said chimeric protein is comprised of a cell targeting moiety for FcεRI expressing cells and a cell killing moiety. The preferred killing moiety is the bacterial toxin Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE). This Pseudomonas exotoxin is a product of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The present invention also relates to a method for the preparation of said protein. This chimeric protein is prepared by genetically fusing the Fc region of the mouse IgE molecule to PE40, a truncated form of PE lacking the cell binding domain. The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions, for the treatment of allergic diseases and for the treatment of hyperplasias and malignancies, comprising as an active ingredient the above mentioned chimeric protein and a conventional adjuvant product.
7754227	Method of immunizing humans against Salmonella typhi using a Vi-rEPA conjugate vaccine	This invention relates to conjugates of the Vi polysaccharide of S. typhi with the carrier Pseudomonas aeruginosa recombinant exoprotein A (rEPA), and compositions thereof, and to methods of using of these conjugates and/or compositions thereof for eliciting an immunogenic response in humans, including responses which provide protection against, or reduce the severity of, S. typhi bacterial infections. The conjugates, and compositions thereof, are useful as vaccines to induce serum antibodies against S. typhi and are useful to prevent and/or treat illnesses caused by S. typhi.
7781166	Methods of detecting and controlling mucoid pseudomonas biofilm production	Compositions and methods for detecting and controlling the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. The present invention provides for detecting the switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state of P. aeruginosa by measuring mucE expression or MucE protein levels. The interaction between MucE and AlgW controls the switch to mucoidy in wild type P. aeruginosa. Also disclosed is an alginate biosynthesis heterologous expression system for use in screening candidate substances that inhibit conversion to mucoidy.
7795410	Compositions and methods for treating HIV infection with cupredoxin and cytochrome c	The present invention relates to cupredoxin, specifically Pseudomonas aeruginosa azurin, and/or Pseudomonas aeruginosa cytochrome c551 and their use in inhibiting of viral infection, and in particular infection of mammalian cells by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to variants and derivatives of cupredoxin and cytochrome c that retain the ability to inhibit viral infection, and in particular infection by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). The invention also relates to research methods for studying viral and bacterial infection in mammalian cells.
7803407	Disinfectant and method of making	A non-toxic environmentally friendly aqueous disinfectant is disclosed for specific use as prevention against contamination by potentially pathogenic bacteria and virus. The aqueous disinfectant is formulated by electrolytically generating silver ions in water in combination with a citric acid. The aqueous disinfectant may include a suitable alcohol and/or a detergent. The aqueous disinfectant has been shown to be very effective at eliminating standard indicator organisms such as staphylococcus aureus, salmonella cholerasuis and pseudomonas aeruginosa.
7939319	Tool for the transfer and production of proteins using the pseudomonas type III secretion system	The present invention provides a vector for expression of a chimeric protein which is the result of the fusion between the N-terminal end of ExoS of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and an amino acid sequence of interest, the N-terminal end of ExoS corresponding to the N-terminal end of the chimeric protein. The vector contains the following from 5′ to 3′:
7939502	Optimised formulation of tobramycin for aerosolization	The invention provides a tobramycin formulation for delivery by aerosolization in the form of additive-free, isotonic solution whose pH has been optimised to ensure adequate shelf-life at room temperature. Said formulation can be advantageously used for the treatment and prophylaxis of acute and chronic endobronchial infections, in particular those caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated to lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis.
7966767	Enhanced plant growth using alkane biostimulation	A method of enhancing plant growth comprises the step of introducing an alkane into a location adjacent to a plant. The alkane can be introduced intermittently, and can be combined with another gas and/or nutrients. The alkane preferably comprises a butane substrate. The butane substrate can stimulate the growth of butane-utilizing bacteria, such as Aeromonas caviae, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Micrococcus varians, Aureobacterium esteroaromaticum, Aureobacterium barkeri, Rhodococcus fascians, Nocardia paradoxus, Comamonas acidovorans and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The alkane can increase the amount of heterotrophic bacteria in the location adjacent to the plant, and thereby accelerate a heterotrophic nitrification process. The butane substrate can also stimulate the growth of butane-utilizing fungi. The method can also enhance the growth protists and/or prokaryotes. A system for enhancing plant growth in accordance with the method is also disclosed.
7972845	Human antibodies against Pseudomonas aeruginosa LPS derived from transgenic xenomouse	The invention described herein provides for human antibodies produced in non-human animals that specifically bind to Pseudomonas aeruginosa Lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The invention further provides methods for making the antibodies in a non-human animal, expression of the antibodies in cell lines including hybridomas and recombinant host cell systems. Also provided are kits and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the antibodies and methods of treating or preventing pseudomonas infection by administering to a patient the pharmaceutical compositions described herein.
7976851	Non-toxic biofilm inhibitor	The present invention relates to a composition and method for preventing or inhibiting biofilm formation on biotic or abiotic surfaces. The composition comprises a peptide based on the C-terminal receptor binding domain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa type IV pilin, which binds to an abiotic surface (e.g., steel, plastic) with high affinity and prevents binding of a variety of P. aeruginosa strains to the surface. The inventive composition represents a non-toxic inhibitor for biofilm formation, particularly on an abiotic surface, which is responsible for a large number of problematic diseases and massive economic losses. The inventive method is useful as a safe and environmentally friendly means of modifying a surface of a variety of biomedical, nanotechnological, and biotechnological devices or articles.
7985410	Method or agent for inhibiting the function of efflux pump Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The purpose of the present invention is to provide a method and an agent to efficiently inhibit the function of the drug efflux pump of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The invention provides a method to inhibit the function of the drug efflux pump of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, comprising modifying any amino acid residue selected from 100th to 109th or 311th to 320th amino acid residues in the amino acid sequence of mature OprM protein. The invention also provides an agent having such inhibitory effect, and a screening method thereof.
8017749	Compositions and methods to treat cancer with cupredoxins and CpG rich DNA	The present invention relates to compositions comprising CpG rich DNA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compositions optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention includes specific CpG DNAs from Pseudomonas aeruginosa that are useful for treating cancer and other conditions in patients. These compositions are optionally in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and also optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention further relates to methods to express proteins near cancer cells. These methods may be used to express therapeutic or diagnostic proteins near cancer cells in a patient suffering from cancer or other conditions, and can also be used for diagnosing cancer in a patient. This method uses the gene for azurin from P. aeruginosa as an expression system for azurin or heterologous proteins in P. aeruginosa or heterologous cells.
8044181	Antibodies to the PcrV antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The current invention provides high-affinity antibodies to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PcrV protein that have reduced immunogenicity when administered to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections.
8084044	Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein PA0427	An object of the present invention is to provide a protein or peptide antigen and an antibody against it, for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of diseases associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. According to the present invention, there is provided a protein or peptide derived from Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein PA0427 and an antibody against it, for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of diseases associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8093377	Cephalosporin in crystalline form	The present invention relates to cephalosporin of formula (I) in crystalline form. The compound of formula (I) in crystalline form is useful as antibiotics having potent and broad antibacterial activity; especially against methicillin resistant Staphylococci (MRSA) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8101347	Method and compositions for immunization with the Pseudomonas V antigen	A method of inhibiting, moderating or diagnosing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is disclosed. In one embodiment, this method comprises inoculating a patient with an effective amount of PcrV antigen.
8128922	Superior molecular vaccine linking the translocation domain of a bacterial toxin to an antigen	Nucleic acids encoding a chimeric or fusion polypeptide which polypeptide comprises a first domain comprising a translocation polypeptide; and a second domain comprising at least one antigenic peptide are disclosed. The preferred translocation polypeptide is a bacterial toxin translocation polypeptide, such as domain II of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (ETA(dII)). Such nucleic acids, expression vectors thereof, and cells expressing these vectors are used as vaccine compositions in a method for enhancing an antigen specific immune response, a method of increasing the numbers of CD8+ CTLs specific for a selected desired antigen in a subject, or a method of inhibiting the growth of a tumor in a subject.
8153597	Modulators of the ABC transporter family and methods for their use	An isolated factor derived from the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa and confirmed by proteomics to be a protein that reduces expression of ABC transmembrane proteins and active fragments and mimetics thereof are provided. Also provided is a method for inhibiting expression of ABC transmembrane proteins in cells by administering to the cells the isolated factor or protein or active fragment thereof or a mimetic thereof. Such methods are useful in the enhancing delivery of small molecule therapeutic agents to the CNS and in treating cancers, particularly multidrug resistant cancers, and secretory diarrhea. In addition, compositions, methods for identifying compositions and methods for use of compositions that inhibit suppression of ABC transmembrane protein expression or reduce epoxide hydrolase activity by this factor are provided. Such compositions and methods are useful in treatment of cystic fibrosis.
8158574	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions and methods comprising chemopreventive agents that may be cupredoxin(s) or variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins, and at least one other chemopreventive agent. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The at least one other chemopreventive agent may comprise an antiestrogen such as Tamoxifen. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
8168598	Optimised formulation of tobramycin for aerosolization	The invention provides a tobramycin formulation for delivery by aerosolization in the form of additive-free, isotonic solution whose pH has been optimised to ensure adequate shelf-life at room temperature. Said formulation can be advantageously used for the treatment and prophylaxis of acute and chronic endobronchial infections, in particular those caused by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated to lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis.
8202520	Method of immunizing humans against Salmonella typhi using a Vi-rEPA conjugate vaccine	This invention relates to conjugates of the Vi polysaccharide of S. typhi with the carrier Pseudomonas aeruginosa recombinant exoprotein A (rEPA), and compositions thereof, and to methods of using of these conjugates and/or compositions thereof for eliciting an immunogenic response in humans, including responses which provide protection against, or reduce the severity of, S. typhi bacterial infections. The conjugates, and compositions thereof, are useful as vaccines to induce serum antibodies against S. typhi and are useful to prevent and/or treat illnesses caused by S. typhi.
8206971	Modified bacteriocins and methods for their use	Modified forms of naturally occurring bacteriocins, such as the R-type pyocins of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are disclosed as are methods for producing them in GRAS organisms. The bacteriocins are modified at the ends of their tail fibers in a region responsible for binding specificity and affinity to their cognate binding partners, or receptors, such as those on the surface of bacteria. Methods for the use of the modified bacteriocins, such as to bind receptors, including virulence or fitness factors, on the surfaces of bacteria, are also described.
8227402	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin(s), and/or variants, derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins, that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues or animals. These compositions may be peptides or pharmaceutical compositions, among others. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
8258290	Glycomimetic inhibitors of the PA-IL lectin, PA-IIL lectin or both the lectins from pseudomonas	Compositions and methods are provided related to Pseudomonas bacteria. The compositions and methods may be used for diagnosis and therapy of medical conditions involving infection with Pseudomonas bacteria. Such infections include Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis. A compound useful in the present methods may be used in combination with a therapeutic agent or may be linked to a therapeutic agent. Pseudomonas bacteria may be inhibited by blocking colonization, inhibiting virulence factors, arresting growth or killing the bacteria.
8282920	Phage therapy against Pseudomonas aeruginosa	This invention relates to a bacteriophage MPK6 (deposit number: KCCM 11044P) having a lytic activity to Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or a progeny bacteriophage thereof having a RFLP (Restriction fragment length polymorphism) DNA profile substantially equivalent to the bacteriophage MPK6. The present invention provides a bacteriophage MPK6 or a progeny bacteriophage thereof capable of treating a Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection disease, and suggests an anti-bacterial activity of MPK6 and its progeny bacteriophage using a mammalian and non-mammalian infection model. According to the present invention, the present bacteriophage MPK6 or progeny bacteriophage thereof represents very effective efficacy on treatment of P. aeruginosa-induced peritonitis-sepsis.
8293517	Methods and compositions for the identification of antibiotics that are not susceptible to antibiotic resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The “instant evolution” system was initially developed in E. coli, primarily because of the ease with which this organism can be genetically manipulated. Because many of the functionally important regions of rRNA are conserved among bacteria, drug leads developed against conserved targets in the E. coli system may produce broad-spectrum anti-infectives. However, in order the develop a system to product narrow-spectrum anti-infectives, herein we disclose method and compositions for screening Pseudomonas aeruginosa 16S rRNA in E. coli cells. In certain embodiments, a plasmid comprising the 16S rRNA gene from Pseudomonas aeruginosa t mutated to replace the natural helix 9 region with the corresponding region of the E. coli rRNA, is shown to form functional ribosomes in E. coli host cells. Li other embodiments, a plasmid, comprising the unmutated 16S rRNA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, along with a plasmid containing the Pseudomonas aeruginosa S20 protein, can yield functional ribosomes in E. coli cells.
8343505	Subunit vaccine for aquaculture	An aquatic subunit vaccine comprises an antigenic fusion protein and suitable carrier or adjuvant. The antigenic fusion protein sequence consists from its amino terminus to carboxyl terminus of a receptor binding motif and a translocation domain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A and has the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 8; a viral antigenic protein affecting fish disease; and a signal peptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID No: 10.
8367720	Andrographolide derivatives and use thereof in manufacture of medicaments	The present invention relates to an andrographolide derivative of the formula (I), wherein R1, R2 and R3 are same or different substituents selected from hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted organic acid radicals, inorganic acid radicals, alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl, and at least one of R1, R2 and R3 is R-lipoic acid, S-lipoic acid or a mixture thereof, or corresponding dihydrolipoic acids thereof, or N-acetylcysteine radical. The derivative has good antitumor effect, can induce apoptosis of tumor cells, can directly kill Gram-positive bacteria (staphylococcus aureus) and drug resistance bacteria (MRSA5676 and MRSA5677), can inhibit the QS-system of Gram-negative bacteria (Pseudomonas aeruginosa), can inhibit and destroy the formation of biofilm of Pseudomonas aeruginosa; and exhibits significant hypoglycemic effect, so that it can be used in manufacture of medicaments for treatment of cancers, inflammation, diabetes, and bacterial and viral infections.
8399496	Inhalable aztreonam lysinate formulation for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam lysinate delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
8399649	Methods of detecting and controlling mucoid Pseudomonas biofilm production	Compositions and methods for detecting and controlling the conversion to mucoidy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are disclosed. The present invention provides for detecting the switch from nonmucoid to mucoid state of P. aeruginosa by measuring mucE expression or MucE protein levels. The interaction between MucE and AlgW controls the switch to mucoidy in wild type P. aeruginosa. Also disclosed is an alginate biosynthesis heterologous expression system for use in screening candidate substances that inhibit conversion to mucoidy.
8454977	Non-toxic biofilm inhibitor	The present invention relates to a composition, device and method for preventing or inhibiting biofilm formation on biotic or abiotic surfaces. The composition comprises a peptide based on the C-terminal receptor binding domain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa type IV pilin, which binds to an abiotic surface (e.g., steel, plastic) with high affinity and prevents binding of a variety of P. aeruginosa strains to the surface. The inventive composition represents a non-toxic inhibitor for biofilm formation, particularly on an abiotic surface, which is responsible for a large number of problematic diseases and massive economic losses. The inventive method is useful as a safe and environmentally friendly means of modifying a surface of a variety of biomedical, nanotechnological, and biotechnological devices or articles.
8460689	Oral care method and kit	A method of moisturizing while decolonizing mammalian tissue, the method comprising applying a multi-valent cationic antiseptic composition to the tissue, and applying a moisturizer composition to at least a portion of the same tissue; wherein the mammalian tissue is oral tissue of a subject; wherein the multi-valent cationic antiseptic is other than a metal ion; and wherein the applied compositions essentially exclude any component which causes a precipitate when combined with a multi-valent cationic antiseptic contained in the multi-valent cationic antiseptic composition when tested according to Test Method F, and/or wherein the moisturizer composition is such that a log reduction in the number of viable bacterial cells of at least 2 is provided when 106 cfu of Pseudomonas aeruginosa are combined with a mixture 1.1 g of the moisturizer composition and 1.5 g of the multi-valent cationic antiseptic composition containing 0.12 weight percent of the multi-valent cationic antiseptic according to Test Method B; an oral care kit comprising a composition comprising the multi-valent cationic antiseptic and the moisturizer composition; and a method of moisturizing oral tissue of a patient requiring intubation using the moisturizer composition and an endotracheal tube coated or impregnated with a cationic antiseptic are provided.
8470883	Preservative system and composition based on glycinate and hydroxyethyl sulfonate salt combination	A preservative system and a personal care composition containing that system is provided which includes the preservative combination of a C10-C24 acyl glycinate salt and a hydroxyethyl sulfonate salt. This preservative system is effective against gram negative bacteria, particularly Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8501179	Antibody against PcrV	Provided is an effective means for therapy of infection, particularly infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Provided are a monoclonal antibody against PcrV or a part thereof, and a pharmaceutical composition containing the same as an active ingredient. Concretely, monoclonal antibody of the present invention has excellent inhibiting activity on cytotoxicity with respect to a target cell of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Also, the monoclonal antibody of the present invention has high affinity with PcrV.
8519166	System and method for controlling growth of microorganisms with brominated furanones	A method for inhibiting the growth of a microorganism using an effective amount of one or more of the following synthetic brominated furanones: (i) 4-bromo-5Z-(bromomethylene)-3-methylfuran-2-one; (ii) 3-(dibromomethyl)-5-(dibromomethylene)furan-2-one; (iii) 3-(bromomethyl)-5-(dibromomethylene)furan-2-one; (iv) 4-bromo-3-(bromomethyl)-5Z-(bromomethylene)furan-2-one; or (v) 4-bromo-5-(dibromomethyl)-3-methylfuran-2(5H)-one. The brominated furanones inhibit the growth of both fungi and bacteria, including the fungal species Candida albicans, Gloeophyllum trabeum, Chaetomium globosum, and Trametes versicolor and the bacterial species Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The brominated furanones can be used topically or internally to treat human infections, and can be used to treat other objects, such as wood building supplies, to prevent fungal rot.
8530680	System and method for controlling growth of microorganisms with brominated furanones	A method for inhibiting the growth of a microorganism using an effective amount of one or more of the following synthetic brominated furanones: (i) 4-bromo-5Z-(bromomethylene)-3-methylfuran-2-one; (ii) 3-(dibromomethyl)-5-(dibromomethylene)furan-2-one; (iii) 3-(bromomethyl)-5-(dibromomethylene)furan-2-one; (iv) 4-bromo-3-(bromomethyl)-5Z-(bromomethylene)furan-2-one; or (v) 4-bromo-5-(dibromomethyl)-3-methylfuran-2(5H)-one. The brominated furanones inhibit the growth of both fungi and bacteria, including the fungal species Candida albicans, Gloeophyllum trabeum, Chaetomium globosum, and Trametes versicolor and the bacterial species Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The brominated furanones can be used topically or internally to treat human infections, and can be used to treat other objects, such as wood building supplies, to prevent fungal rot.
8551399	Healthcare facility disinfecting system	A system and process for disinfecting rooms such as health care facility rooms with an oxygen/ozone mixture is described, which is effective to combat “superbugs” such as Clostridium difficile (C. difficile); E. coli; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA); and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE). In preferred embodiments, hydrogen peroxide is additionally used. The system and process is effective to destroy bacteria deposited on surfaces as biofilm, and, accompanied by physical agitation such as jet nozzle outlets, is effective to disinfect carpet, drapery and similar absorbent and porous surfaces.
8551456	Combination therapy and methods for treating bacterial biofilms	A combination therapy for treating a bacterial biofilm comprises a therapeutically effective amount of an antibiotic comprising an aminoglycoside or tetracycline, or a combination of two or more thereof, and a cationic porphyrin in an amount effective for enhancing the effectiveness of the antibiotic in treating the bacterial biofilm. A method of treating a bacterial biofilm comprising Pseudomonas aeruginosa comprises contacting the bacterial biofilm with a combination therapy comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an antibiotic, and a cationic porphyrin in an amount effective for enhancing the effectiveness of the antibiotic in treating the bacterial biofilm. A method of treating a bacterial biofilm comprising Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a patient comprises administering to the patient a combination therapy comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an antibiotic, and a cationic porphyrin in an amount effective for enhancing the effectiveness of the antibiotic in treating the bacterial biofilm.
8551725	Method of identifying agents that inhibit quorum sensing activity of gamma-proteobacteria	Screening assays that allow for the identification of agents that increase acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) acylase expression and/or AHL acylase activity in γ-proteobacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Such agents are useful, for example, for inhibiting quorum sensing activity of such bacteria by increasing degradation of long chain, but not short chain, AHLs and, therefore, can be useful for treating infections by such bacteria.
8557300	Methods for treating bacterial respiratory tract infections in an individual using acidified nitrite	Methods for treating bacterial respiratory tract infections in an individual comprise administering a therapeutic amount of nitrite composition having a pH of less than 7, and in specific embodiments, a pH of about 5.5-6.5, to the individual. The individual may be a pulmonary disease diagnosed individual and/or the infection may be at least in part caused by mucoid mucA mutant Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8569027	System and method for controlling bacterial persister cells with weak electric currents	A system and method for treating persister cells with an electrochemical process, alone or in combination with antibiotics. Weak electric currents are used to effectively eliminate persister cells and the efficacy can be further improved through synergistic effects with antibiotics. The method may be adapted for novel therapies of chronic infections and strategies to control persistent biofouling. The system has a broad spectrum applications in treating chronic and drug resistant infections, such as those caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and may also be used for decontamination of medical devices.
8628807	Negatively charged polysaccharide derivable from aloe vera	A new composition of matter is provided comprising negatively charged polysaccharides which can be derived from Aloe vera and a process to prepare that composition of matter by sub fractionation of an extract of Aloe vera, passing the formed subfraction over a positively charged column and eluting the same with a salt solution. Optionally the Aloe vera is pre purified over a Sephadex G-25 column. This composition of matter and also the extract comprising the same which is formed after pre purification or ultra filtration of an Aloe vera extract is useful as a food supplement or in dietary foods, for use in personal care and in cosmetics, especially to prevent an infection with the bacteria Helicobacter pylori, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus mutans or Streptococcus sanguis.
8637090	Gallium formulation for the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases	A method and composition for treatment of bacterial infections caused by gram negative or gram positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus, Rhodococcus equi, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a formulation containing gallium (III), in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or complex thereof.
8642039	Method of treating a staphylococcus infection in a patient having a low-level pathogenic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	This invention provides methods of treating patients having a Staphylococcus infection where the patient also has a low level of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The methods comprise administering an antagonist of the Pseudomonas Type III Secretion System, e.g., an anti-PcrV antibody antagonist.
8653242	Therapeutic antibodies against flagellated Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Improved antibodies are provided selected from human, dual-specific, chimeric or humanized antibodies, wherein said human chimeric and humanized antibodies specifically bind to flagellin type A or type B of P. aeruginosa, and said dual-specific antibodies specifically binds to flagella type A and type B of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and said antibodies are protective against infection caused by P. aeruginosa. These antibodies as well as pharmaceutical composition comprising them are useful for the treatment of indications caused by P. aeruginosa infection.
8663914	System and method for controlling bacterial cells with weak electric currents	A system and method for treating bacterial cells with an electrochemical process, alone or in combination with antibiotics. Weak electric currents are used to effectively eliminate bacterial cells. The method may be adapted for novel therapies of chronic infections and strategies to control persistent biofouling. The system has broad spectrum applications in treating chronic and drug resistant infections, such as those caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and may also be used for decontamination of medical devices.
8685922	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antimicrobial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formula (I) wherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depending on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining Symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments to treat or prevent infections. These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and Solution phase synthetic strategy.
8716506	Xylitol esters and ethers applied as alternative emulsifiers, solvents, co-emulsifiers and preservative systems for pharmaceutical and cosmetic products	This patent application has as purpose the application/utilization of esters and ethers derived from xylitol, obtained by organic synthesis, as alternative emollient, moisturizing, emulsifier and co-emulsifier and preservatives for pharmaceutical, cosmetic and veterinarian products. The molecules required in this invention patent are mainly xylitol esters and ethers associated to the chains of fatty acids and alcohols (FIGS. 1 and 2), applied isolated or in association with other molecules of known preserving and/or moisturizing/emollient actions, such as phenoxyethanol, butylene glycol, glycerin, caprylyl glycol, ethyl hexyl glycerin, phenetyl alcohol, nisin, lactoferrin, among others, as well as in association with other emollient/moisturizing and preservatives for application in cosmetic, pharmaceutical and veterinarian formulations. Some of these associations and isolated applications present important antimicrobial action, such as for example, inhibiting the growth of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Aspergilus niger and Candida albicans. Also, the present co-emulsifier, emollient, solving and moisturizing properties.
8735110	Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain developed for improving fatty acid content, and method of manufacturing the same	Disclosed are novel Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains capable of producing in high yield and preparation methods thereof. The strains anchor an expression vector carrying either or both of a nucleotide sequence coding for acetyl-CoA carboxylase carboxytransferase subunit alpha of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and a nucleotide sequence coding for malonyl-CoA-[acyl-carrier-protein] transacylase of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or a nucleotide sequence coding for acyl-acyl carrier protein thioesterase of Streptococcus pyogenes. The recombinant Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains are genetically stable and have high lipid or fatty acid contents, thus being applicable to the mass production of fatty acids.
8809314	Cephalosporin compound	The cephalosporin compound of formula (I) is disclosed, which exhibits antibiotic activity against Gram-negative (e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and Gram-positive (e.g., methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) bacteria. Methods of manufacturing the compound of formula (I), and uses of the compound in the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions and antibacterial applications are also disclosed.
8834930	Pulmonary delivery of a fluoroquinolone	A composition for pulmonary administration comprises a fluoroquinolone betaine, such as ciprofloxacin betaine, and an excipient. In one version, the particles have a mass median aerodynamic diameter from about 1 μm to about 5 μm, and the fluoroquinolone has a half life in the lungs of at least 1.5 hours. The composition is useful in treating an endobronchial infection, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and is particularly useful in treating cystic fibrosis.
8841286	Inhalable aztreonam lysinate formulation for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam lysinate delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
8846591	Cleaning and disinfecting liquid hand dishwashing detergent compositions	The invention relates to a liquid cleaning and disinfecting hand dishwashing detergent composition comprising at least one surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, cationic, zwitterionic, amphoteric surfactants, and mixtures thereof, at least one organic solvent and/or at least one hydrotrope, and a single antibacterial active and/or at least one sequestering agent. The cleaning and disinfecting hand dishwashing detergent composition eliminates 99.999% of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus hirae in no more than 5 minutes at an 80% product concentration and 20 degrees Celsius according to the EN1276 suspension testThe present invention further relates to methods of cleaning and disinfecting dishware and/or dishwashing implements and/or skin using such a liquid of cleaning and disinfecting detergent composition.
8852883	Rapid FRET-based diagnosis of bacterial pathogens	Substrates for detecting microorganisms are provided, wherein the substrate comprises a set of molecular markers linked, optionally with linker molecules or moieties, to a di-, or tripeptide consisting of amino acids X1 and X2, or X1, X2 and X3, in which one of them, for example, X1, is a D-amino acid and the others, for example, X2 and X3, may be any D- or L-amino acid. The substrate preferably is used for the detection of Bacillus anthracis. Also provided are substrates for detecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa, wherein the substrate comprises a set of molecular markers linked, optionally with linker molecules or moieties to a tri-, tetra-, or pentapeptide consisting of glycine amino acids. The invention further comprises methods for detecting microorganisms, specifically B. anthracis and P. aeruginosa, with the substrates of the invention and use of the substrate(s) in such a method.
8877191	Antibodies to the PcrV antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The current invention provides high-affinity antibodies to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PcrV protein that have reduced immunogenicity when administered to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections.
8889149	Use of flagellin to prevent and treat gram negative bacterial infection	The disclosure describes use of flagellin polypeptides to induce tolerance to gram negative bacteria, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, in order to alleviate the effects of the inflammatory response to bacterial infection in a patient. Also described are methods and compositions for treating and preventing keratitis, cystic fibrosis, asthma, and other diseases and conditions in which inflammation contributes to the pathology and symptoms.
8927703	Compositions, kits and related methods for the detection and/or monitoring of Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The present invention provides compositions, methods and kits for the species-specific detection of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
8932586	Modified forms of Pseudomonas exotoxin A	Pseudomonas exotoxin A or “PE” is a 66 kD, highly potent, cytotoxic protein secreted by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Various forms of PE have been coupled to other proteins, such as antibodies, to generate therapeutically useful cytotoxin conjugates that selectively target cells of a desired phenotype (such as tumor cells). In the present invention, peptides spanning the sequence of an approximately 38 kD form of Pseudomonas exotoxin A protein were analyzed for the presence of immunogenic CD4+ T cell epitopes. Six immunogenic T cell epitopes were identified. Residues were identified within each epitope for introduction of targeted amino acid substitutions to reduce or prevent immunogenic T-cell responses in PE molecules which may be administered to a heterologous host.
8980619	Method for bio-assisted treatment of hydrocarbon contaminated soil	Provided is a method of treating a hydrocarbon-contaminated soil/gravel with a blend of microbes by adding a first microbe selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain IOCX, Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain IOC DHT and mixtures thereof to a hydrocarbon-contaminated soil/gravel to release the hydrocarbon; and adding a second microbe selected from the group consisting of Pseudomonas putida strain IOC5al, Pseudomonas putida strain IOCRl, Bacillus subtlis and a mixture thereof to degrade the released hydrocarbon.
8986990	Human antibodies against Pseudomonas aeruginosa LPS	The invention described herein provides for human antibodies produced in non-human animals that specifically bind to Pseudomonas aeruginosa Lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The invention further provides methods for making the antibodies in a non-human animal, expression of the antibodies in cell lines including hybridomas and recombinant host cell systems. Also provided are kits and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the antibodies and methods of treating or preventing pseudomonas infection by administering to a patient the pharmaceutical compositions described herein.
8993500	Cleaning and disinfecting liquid hand dishwashing detergent comprising a benzyl alcohol/ethanol mixture	The invention relates to a liquid cleaning and disinfecting hand dishwashing detergent composition comprising at least one surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, cationic, zwitterionic, amphoteric surfactants, and mixtures thereof, at least one organic solvent and/or at least one hydrotrope, and a single antibacterial active and/or at least one sequestering agent. The cleaning and disinfecting hand dishwashing detergent composition eliminates 99.999% of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus hirae in no more than 5 minutes at an 80% product concentration and 20 degrees Celsius according to the EN1276 suspension testThe present invention further relates to methods of cleaning and disinfecting dishware and/or dishwashing implements and/or skin using such a liquid of cleaning and disinfecting detergent composition.
9024110	Methods for glyco-engineering plant cells for controlled human O-glycosylation	This invention discloses the development of a novel platform for recombinant production of bioactive glycoproteins and cancer specific vaccines in plants. Plants and plant cell cultures have been humanized with respect to human mucin-type protein O-glycosylation. A panel of plant cell factories for production of recombinant glycoproteins with designed human O-glycosylation, including an improved cancer vaccine candidate, has been developed. The platform provides basis for i) production of an essentially unlimited array of O-glycosylated human glycoprotein therapeutics, such as human interferon α2B and podoplanin, and ii) for further engineering of additional cancer specific O-glycans on glycoproteins of therapeutical value. Currently, mammalian cells are required for human O-glycosylation, but plants offer a unique cell platform for engineering O-glycosylation since they do not perform human type O-glycosylation. Introduction of O-glycosylation into plant cells requires i) that wild-type plant cells do not modify the target peptide substrates and ii) that the appropriate enzymes and substrates are introduced into of plant cells such that O-glycosylation in the secretory pathway proceed and the glycosylated peptide substrates are preferentially exported to the exterior of the cell or accumulated in the cell. In this invention i) the integrity of transiently and stably expressed ‘mucin’ type target peptides in plants cells has been determined and ii) mucin-type O-glycosylation has been established in plants by transient and stable introduction of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa C4-epimerase, the human polypeptide GalNAc-transferases T2 and T4 (GalNAc-T2 and T4) and various human target peptides or proteins. In the present invention GalNAc-T2 and -T4 have been used to produce a Tn cancer glycoform of MUC1.
9056081	Compositions for treating pseudomonas infection	The invention relates to a HNK-I mimetic peptide or a polypeptide comprising such HNK-I mimetic peptide for treating or preventing a Pseudomonas infection, in particular an infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The invention further relates to the use of a HNK-I mimetic peptide or a polypeptide comprising such HNK-I mimetic peptide for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing a Pseudomonas infection. The invention also relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HNK-I mimetic peptide or a polypeptide comprising such HNK-I mimetic peptide, wherein the composition is for treating or preventing a Pseudomonas infection.
9073821	Hydroxamic acid derivative	Provided is a novel compound which is useful as a pharmaceutical composition by inhibiting an LpxC activity, thereby exhibiting potent antimicrobial activity against gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its drug resistant bacteria. Provided is a hydroxamic acid derivative represented by the following general formula [1] or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
9073989	Antibiotic comprising an antibody mimetic, its preparation methods and uses thereof	The present invention belongs to field of biology and medicine, and especially relates to a novel antibiotic comprising an antibody mimetic antibody, its preparation methods and uses thereof. A novel antibiotic comprising a antibody mimetic covalently bonded to the carboxyl end of a colicin polypeptide or a channel-forming domain polypeptide of a colicin, wherein said colicin is selected from the group consisting of Colicin E1, Ia, Ib, A, B, N; wherein said antibody mimetic being yielded by fusing two complementarity determining regions (CDRs), VHCDR1 and VLCDR3 through a cognate framework region (VHFR2) of an immunoglobulin; wherein said the immunoglobulin specifically recognizes the bacterial porins. Its antibacterial ability is a thousandfold powerful than normal antibiotics. Due to its unique action mechanism, drug resistance resulted in mutation can hardly be acquired by pathogenic bacteria. And the antibiotic will not hurt normal human cells when it kills pathogenic bacteria. Therefore, it can be used for manufacturing antibacterial medicament of killing Neisseria meningitidis, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, multidrug-resistance Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
9085611	Humanized PcrV antibody having anti-pseudomonal activity	Provided are a humanized monoclonal antibody against PcrV or a part thereof, and a pharmaceutical composition containing the same as an active ingredient, as an effective means for therapy of infection, particularly infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Concretely, the humanized monoclonal antibody of the present invention has an excellent inhibitory activity on the cytotoxicity with respect to a target cell of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Also, the humanized monoclonal antibody of the present invention has a high affinity for PcrV.
9089557	Human antibodies against Pseudomonas aeruginosa LPS derived from transgenic xenomouse	The invention described herein provides for human antibodies produced in non-human animals that specifically bind to Pseudomonas aeruginosa Lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The invention further provides methods for making the antibodies in a non-human animal, expression of the antibodies in cell lines including hybridomas and recombinant host cell systems. Also provided are kits and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the antibodies and methods of treating or preventing pseudomonas infection by administering to a patient the pharmaceutical compositions described herein.
9096659	Flagellin fusion proteins and use thereof to induce immune responses against Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The invention provides compositions and fusion proteins comprising a flagellin adjuvant and a Pseudomonas aeruginosa antigen. The invention further provides pharmaceutical formulations and methods for inducing an immune response against P. aeruginosa (e.g., to prevent and/or treat P. aeruginosa infection).
9109260	Identification of bacteria by amplification and probing	A method for identifying bacteria in a sample is described which comprises amplifying a portion of the 23S rDNA present in the sample using, as one primer, a degenerate primer set comprising one or more DNA molecules consisting essentially of DNA having the sequence(s) 5′GCGATTTCYGAAYGGGGRAACCC (SEQ ID NO: 1), the other primer consisting of DNA having the sequence 5′TTCGCCTTTCCCTCACGGTACT (SEQ ID NO: 2) and testing the resulting amplicon by hybridization to one or more oligonucleotide probes designed to identify one or more bacteria likely to be present in the sample. The method allows for the identification of at least 8 and considerably more bacterial species in a single test, including Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterococeus spp., Klebsiella spp., Enterobacter spp., Proteus spp., Pneumococci, and coagulase-negative Staphylococci. One or more novel oligonucleotides for use in this test are immobilized on a solid carrier and incorporated in a diagnostic test kit for use in hospitals and other environments.
9134298	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer with cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising peptides that may be variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins that inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The present invention further relates to compositions that may comprise cupredoxin(s), and/or variants, derivatives or structural equivalents of cupredoxins, that retain the ability to inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues or animals. These compositions may be peptides or pharmaceutical compositions, among others. The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
9155732	Pulmonary delivery of a fluoroquinolone	A composition for pulmonary administration comprises a fluoroquinolone betaine, such as ciprofloxacin betaine, and an excipient. In one version, the particles have a mass median aerodynamic diameter from about 1 μm to about 5 μm, and the fluoroquinolone has a half life in the lungs of at least 1.5 hours. The composition is useful in treating an endobronchial infection, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and is particularly useful in treating cystic fibrosis.
9260509	Flagellin fusion proteins and use thereof to induce immune responses against Pseudomonas aeruginosa	The invention provides compositions and fusion proteins comprising a flagellin adjuvant and a Pseudomonas aeruginosa antigen. The invention further provides pharmaceutical formulations and methods for inducing an immune response against P. aeruginosa (e.g., to prevent and/or treat P. aeruginosa infection).
9345663	Inhalable aztreonam lysinate formulation for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam lysinate delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
9347944	Method for detecting pneumonia causative bacteria using nucleic acid chromatography	Provided are a method and a kit for accurately and rapidly detecting ten types of targeting pneumonia bacteria: Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Moraxella catarrhalis, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and Staphylococcus aureus. A set of primer pairs directed to their respective target regions contained in the DnaJ gene, etc., of the ten types of pneumonia causative bacteria is designed for the ten bacterial strains and used to amplify gene products. A set of bacterial strain-specific probe pairs is further designed for the ten bacterial strains such that the probe pairs hybridize with the amplification products via sequences in the respective target regions differing from the sequences hybridized by the set of primer pairs. A first probe-bound labeled high molecular carrier in which plural types of first probes for the pneumonia bacteria are bound to a labeled high molecular carrier and a solid-phase second probe-carrying developing support are used as the set of probe pairs to perform nucleic acid chromatography.
9352015	Antimicrobial peptides	Disclosed are antimicrobial peptides with useful or superior properties such as antimicrobial activity, desirable levels of hemolysis, and advantageous therapeutic index against various microorganisms, especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii and Staphylococcus aureus. Also provided are methods of to control microbial growth and pharmaceutical compositions to treat or prevent microbial infections. Certain peptides are disclosed utilizing a structure-based rational modification of antimicrobial peptide D1, with single D-/L-amino acid substitutions or charged residue substitutions in or near the center of the peptide on the nonpolar or polar face, or peptides with one or more amino acids in the D configuration, and peptides with all amino acids in the D configuration. Modified peptide analogs herein can demonstrate one or more properties such as improved antimicrobial activity, specificity, and resistance to degradation. Compositions disclosed herein are useful as antibiotics, including as broad spectrum antibiotics.
9359412	OprF/I fusion proteins, their preparation and use	The present invention relates to a novel trimeric OprF/I fusion protein comprising a portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein F which is fused with its carboxy terminal end to a portion of the amino terminal end of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa out membrane protein I, wherein said portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein F comprises the amino acids 190-342 of SEQ ID NO: 1 and wherein said portion of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa outer membrane protein I comprises the amino acids 21-83 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and further to a novel Opr F/I fusion protein which contains a disulphide bond pattern, preferably selected from the group consisting of (a) Cys18-Cys27-bond, (b) Cys18-Cys27-bond and Cys33-Cys47-bond, and (c) Cys18-Cys47 and Cys27-Cys33-bond, and to immunogenic variants thereof having at least 85% identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3. The present invention also relates to a novel method for producing said OprF/I fusion proteins and to their use for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition and for the preparation of antibodies or antibody derivatives which specifically bind said novel OprF/I fusion proteins.
9371351	Glycomimetics as Pseudomonas aeruginosa lectin inhibitors	The present invention relates to fucose- and mannose-derived glycomimetics and their general use in prophylaxis or treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections including respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections, nosocomial infections and chronic wound infections in a patient encompassing a patient suffering already from cystic fibrosis. Said glycomimetics are inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lectin LecB.
9371517	Modified forms of Pseudomonas exotoxin A	Pseudomonas exotoxin A or “PE” is a 66 kD, highly potent, cytotoxic protein secreted by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Various forms of PE have been coupled to other proteins, such as antibodies, to generate therapeutically useful cytotoxin conjugates that selectively target cells of a desired phenotype (such as tumor cells). In the present invention, peptides spanning the sequence of an approximately 38kD form of Pseudomonas exotoxin A protein were analyzed for the presence of immunogenic CD4+ T cell epitopes. Six immunogenic T cell epitopes were identified. Residues were identified within each epitope for introduction of targeted amino acid substitutions to reduce or prevent immunogenic T-cell responses in PE molecules which may be administered to a heterologous host.
9399044	Antimicrobial cationic polyamines	Antimicrobial, non-hemolytic cationic polyamines were prepared by treating partially N-acylated polyethylenimines and/or partially oxidized polyethylenimines with a protic acid. The cationic polyamines can have a linear or branched polyethylenimine backbone structure. Preferably, the cationic polyamines comprise pendant urea groups, which can be introduced via a cyclic carbonate comprising a pendant urea group. The cationic polyamines can be active against a tuberculosis mycobacterium at low concentration. The cationic polyamines are also effective against Gram-negative Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus, and fungus Candida albicans in solution and in the form of a film.
9446071	Antimicrobially active compositions based on zinc compound, glycerine monoalkyl ether and antioxidant	Antimicrobial compositions containing (i) at least one zinc compound selected from zinc salt and zinc oxide; (ii) at least one glycerine monoalkyl ether, R—O—CH2—CHOH—CH2O, wherein R is a branched or unbranched C1-C24 alkyl group that can be substituted with one or more hydroxy and/or C1-C4 alkoxy group(s) and/or the alkyl chain can be interrupted by up to four oxygen atoms; (iii) at least one antioxidant; and optionally (iv) one or more alkanediols; the weight ratio of (ii) to (iii) is at least 10:1. The compositions are used in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals and have broad anti-microbial activity, in particular against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, at active contents of only about 3 wt. %.
9447387	Modified forms of pseudomonas exotoxin A	Pseudomonas exotoxin A or “PE” is a 66kD, highly potent, cytotoxic protein secreted by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Various forms of PE have been coupled to other proteins, such as antibodies, to generate therapeutically useful cytotoxin conjugates that selectively target cells of a desired phenotype (such as tumor cells). In the present invention, peptides spanning the sequence of an approximately 38kD form of Pseudomonas exotoxin A protein were analyzed for the presence of immunogenic CD4+ T cell epitopes. Six immunogenic T cell epitopes were identified. Residues were identified within each epitope for introduction of targeted amino acid substitutions to reduce or prevent immunogenic T-cell responses in PE molecules which may be administered to a heterologous host.
9499477	Hydroxamic acid derivative	Provided is a novel compound which is useful as a pharmaceutical composition by inhibiting an LpxC activity, thereby exhibiting potent antimicrobial activity against gram-negative bacteria including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its drug resistant bacteria. Provided is a hydroxamic acid derivative represented by the following general formula [1] or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
9499852	Wound dressing	The invention provides vesicles that may be used in diagnosing infection, especially with infection by bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The vesicles can be used in wound dressings.
9521846	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antimicrobial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formulawherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depending on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments to treat or prevent infections.These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
9522159	Treatment and prevention of P. aeruginosa infections using coformycin analogs	Methods and devices are disclosed for treating or preventing infections in a subject due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa using coformycin analogs and inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa 5′-methylthioadenosine deaminase (MTADA).
9533000	Inhalable aztreonam for treatment and prevention of pulmonary bacterial infections	A method and a composition for treatment of pulmonary bacterial infections caused by gram-negative bacteria suitable for treatment of infection caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a concentrated formulation of aztreonam, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, delivered as an aerosol or dry powder formulation.
9538752	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antimicrobial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formulawherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depending on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments to treat or prevent infections.These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
9539233	Gallium formulation for the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases	A method and composition for treatment of bacterial infections caused by gram negative or gram positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus, Rhodococcus equi, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter species, Serratia marcescens as well as those caused by Burkholderia cepacia, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Alcaligenes xylosoxidans, and multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, using a formulation containing gallium (III), in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or complex thereof.
9549946	Materials and methods for preventing and treating microbe-mediated epithelial disorders	The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions in the form of relatively high molecular weight biocompatible polymers such as polyethylene glycol, optionally supplemented with a protective polymer such as dextran and/or essential pathogen nutrients such as L-glutamine. Also provided are methods for preventing or treating gut-derived sepsis attributable to intestinal pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa by administering high molecular weight polyethylene glycol as well as methods for monitoring the administration of high molecular weight polyethylene glycol, such as in methods of preventing, ameliorating or treating microbe-induced epithelial disorders, as exemplified by gut-derived sepsis. Frequently, gut-derived sepsis arises as a complication in mammals recovering from surgical intervention or suffering from a disease or disorder, providing indications of suitable animals to receive preventative treatment. Finally, the invention provides a composition comprising infant formula and polyethylene glycol and methods for using that composition.
9585922	Lactic acid bacteria that co-aggregate with pathogenic bacteria	The invention relates to a microorganism, of the order of lactic acid bacteria or analog, fragment, derivative, mutant or combination thereof. Said microorganism, or analog, fragment, derivative, mutants or combinations thereof can be co-aggregated with at least Staphylococcus aureus or Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
9596852	Template-fixed peptidomimetics with antimicrobial activity	Template-fixed β-hairpin peptidomimetics of the general formulawherein Z is a template-fixed chain of 12 α-amino acid residues which, depending on their positions in the chain (counted starting from the N-terminal amino acid) are Gly, or Pro, or of certain types which, as the remaining symbols in the above formula, are defined in the description and the claims, and salts thereof, have the property to selectively inhibit the growth of or to kill microorganisms such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. They can be used as disinfectants for foodstuffs, cosmetics, medicaments or other nutrient-containing materials, or as medicaments to treat or prevent infections.These β-hairpin peptidomimetics can be manufactured by processes which are based on a mixed solid- and solution phase synthetic strategy.
9598470	Compositions and methods to prevent cancer by stabilizing P53 through non MDM2-mediated pathways	The present invention relates to compositions and methods comprising chemopreventive agents that may be cupredoxin(s) or variants, derivatives and structural equivalents of cupredoxins, and at least one other chemopreventive agent. Specifically, these compositions may comprise azurin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or the 50-77 residue region of azurin (p28). The compositions of the invention may be used to prevent or inhibit the development of premalignant lesions in mammalian cells, tissues and animals, and thus prevent cancer.
9616145	Healthcare facility disinfecting system	A system and process for disinfecting rooms such as health care facility rooms with an oxygen/ozone mixture is described, which is effective to combat “superbugs” such as Clostridium difficile (C. difficile); E. coli; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA); and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE). In preferred embodiments, hydrogen peroxide is additionally used. The system and process is effective to destroy bacteria deposited on surfaces as biofilm, and, accompanied by physical agitation such as jet nozzle outlets, is effective to disinfect carpet, drapery and similar absorbent and porous surfaces.
9622483	Antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and polymeric articles incorporating the same	Embodiments of the present invention pertain to antimicrobial glass compositions, glasses and articles. The articles include a glass, which may include a glass phase and a cuprite phase. In other embodiments, the glasses include as plurality of Cu1+ ions, a degradable phase including B2O3, P2O5 and K2O and a durable phase including SiO2. Other embodiments include glasses having a plurality of Cu1+ ions disposed on the surface of the glass and in the glass network and/or the glass matrix. The article may also include a polymer. The glasses and articles disclosed herein exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of at least one of Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and E. coli, under the EPA Test Method for Efficacy of Copper Alloy as a Sanitizer testing conditions and under Modified JIS Z 2801 for Bacteria testing conditions. In some embodiments, the glass and articles exhibit a 2 log reduction or greater in a concentration of Murine Norovirus under Modified JIS Z 2801 Test for Viruses testing conditions.
9643933	Compounds useful as antibiotic tolerance inhibitors	The disclosure provides compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds useful for treating chronic and acute bacterial infections. Certain of the compounds are compounds and salts of general Formula VIII Certain compounds of this disclosure are MvfR inhibitors. MvfR inhibitors reduce the formation of antibiotic tolerant bacterial strains and are useful for treating Gram-negative bacterial infections and reducing the virulence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Methods of treating bacterial infections in a patient, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, are also provided by the disclosure.
9657326	Method of diagnosing pneumonia by detecting a volatile organic compound	The present invention relates to a method of diagnosing an existing or developing acute pneumonia induced by a microorganism by detecting one or more volatile organic compound(s) in a subject's sample and the use of one or more volatile organic compound(s) for the detection of Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenza and optionally opportunistic pathogen Candida albicans.
9677055	Modified forms of Pseudomonas exotoxin A	Pseudomonas exotoxin A or “PE” is a 66 kD, highly potent, cytotoxic protein secreted by the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Various forms of PE have been coupled to other proteins, such as antibodies, to generate therapeutically useful cytotoxin conjugates that selectively target cells of a desired phenotype (such as tumor cells). In the present invention, peptides spanning the sequence of an approximately 38 kD form of Pseudomonas exotoxin A protein were analyzed for the presence of immunogenic CD4+ T cell epitopes. Six immunogenic T cell epitopes were identified. Residues were identified within each epitope for introduction of targeted amino acid substitutions to reduce or prevent immunogenic T-cell responses in PE molecules which may be administered to a heterologous host.
9751851	Molecules and compositions that inhibit gram negative bacteria and their uses	Antivirulence strategies to combat Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are described. One strategy encompasses synthesis of a series of compounds that inhibit the production of pyocyanin, a redox-active virulence factor produced by this pathogen. A related strategy encompasses synthesis of compounds that inhibit the two P. aeruginosa quorum-sensing receptors, LasR and RhlR, inhibit production of pyocyanin, and inhibit biofilm formation.
9758551	Superior molecular vaccine linking the translocation domain of a bacterial toxin to an antigen	Nucleic acids encoding a chimeric or fusion polypeptide which polypeptide comprises a first domain comprising a translocation polypeptide; and a second domain comprising at least one antigenic peptide are disclosed. The preferred translocation polypeptide is a bacterial toxin translocation polypeptide, such as domain II of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (ETA(dII)). Such nucleic acids, expression vectors thereof, and cells expressing these vectors are used as vaccine compositions in a method for enhancing an antigen specific immune response, a method of increasing the numbers of CD8+ CTLs specific for a selected desired antigen in a subject, or a method of inhibiting the growth of a tumor in a subject.
9788548	Synthesis of pure diallyl morpholinium monomers in high yields and using antibacterial effect of their spiro polymers	Herein, the synthesis of N,Ndiallyl morpholinium monomers and polymerization of the same to form rings at high yield and purity are explained. The process involves the synthesis of N,Ndiallyl morpholinium bromide and chloride and subsequently partially or completely exchanging their anions with borate, p-toluenesulfonate, oleate, and acetate anions. The cyclopolimerization of monomers yields water soluble polymers carrying quaternary ammonium groups in each repeated unit, whose aqueous solutions act as a bactericide solution. These solutions are advantageous in preparation of antibacterial formulations intended for domestic use. The polymer with bromide and borate anions is an efficient antibacterial which is able to kill “Pseudomonas Aeruginosa”, the hardest hospital bacterium to cope with, as well as various common bacteria. These formulations are suitable for producing bactericide wet wipes and forming abacterial surfaces and, when combined with air conditioners, generating bacteria free air.
9801909	Compositions and methods for combating bacterial infections by killing persister cells with mitomycin C	The present disclosure provides a method for killing persister cells with mitomycin C and/or cisplatin, or derivatives thereof. Recalcitrant infections are difficult to treat due to persister cells, a subpopulation of all bacterial populations that is highly tolerant against all traditional antibiotics since the cells are dormant and antibiotics are designed to kill growing cells. Here, we show that MMC and cisplatin eradicate persister cells through a growth-independent mechanism, cross-linking DNA. We find both agents are effective against both planktonic cultures and highly robust biofilm cultures for a broad range of bacterial species, including commensal Escherichia coli K-12 as well as pathogenic species of E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In certain approaches cisplatin is superior to MMC.
9844524	Soap compositions and methods	Natural soap compositions and methods of manufacturing the same having anti-microbial properties for treating and preventing diaper rash and other microbial infections. The soap compositions may contain one or more fatty acids with carbon length ranging from four (C4) to twenty-two (C22) and/or natural fatty acid mixtures of coconut oil, olive oil, and/or tall oil fatty acids which are saponified with lye. The saponification lye may be sodium or potassium hydroxide. In preferred embodiments, the soap compositions contain at least one of sodium or potassium caprate, sodium or potassium caprylate, or mixtures thereof, especially 55:45% caprylate to caprate. The soap compositions are effective at treating or preventing diaper rashes and other microbial infections associated with Candida albicans (Ca—yeast), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Psa—a Gram negative bacteria), Staphylococcus aureus (Sa—a Gram positive bacteria), and Aspergillus niger (An—a mold).
9879069	Antibody therapeutics that bind OprF	There is disclosed compositions and methods relating to or derived from anti-OprF and anti-OprI antibodies. More specifically, there is disclosed fully human antibodies that bind OprF and OprI, OprF and OprI-antibody binding fragments and derivatives of such antibodies, and OprF and OprI-binding polypeptides comprising such fragments. Further still, there is disclosed nucleic acids encoding such antibodies, antibody fragments and derivatives and polypeptides, cells comprising such polynucleotides, methods of making such antibodies, antibody fragments and derivatives and polypeptides, and methods of using such antibodies, antibody fragments and derivatives and polypeptides, including methods of treating or diagnosing subjects having Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections. There is disclosed a method for treating or preventing Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections, wherein the disease is selected from the group consisting of burns, surgical site infections, diabetic foot ulcers, infected wounds, and cystic fibrosis.
9889158	Pharmaceutical composition for the preparation of infusion solutions of antimicrobial preparations, its production process (variations)	The proposed compositions and methods for preparation thereof relate to pharmacology, medicine, veterinary science and pharmaceutical industry. The compositions can be used for preparing infusion solutions of antimicrobial (antibacterial and antifungal) preparations increasing therapeutic efficiency thereof. The compositions include nanostructured colloidal silica and are efficient when treating overwhelming sepsis of tested animals, provoked by Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida albicans. The pharmaceutical compositions have a proven and significant clinically important potentiating impact on therapeutic efficiency of the infusion solutions, when treating inflammatory diseases, in comparison with traditional solvents. The methods include—obtaining a mixture of colloidal silica with sodium chloride or with dextrose in a certain weight ratio, which mixture includes a mass fraction of fine-dispersed particles of colloidal silica, having dimensions not exceeding 5 micrometers, and —subjecting the mixture to impacting-abrasive actions, until the mass fraction is increased at least twice.
9949925	Bactericidal compositions and methods for treating pathogenic biofilms	Disclosed herein are bactericidal compositions that are effective against pathogenic biofilms, especially against biofilms formed by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The disclosed compositions comprise escapin intermediate products which can reduce the biofilm viability and biofilm matrix of P. aeruginosa.
9951123	Anti-LPS O11 antibody	The purpose of the present invention is to provide a substance having superior antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and a pharmaceutical composition for treatment and/or prophylaxis of pseudomonal infections. A pharmaceutical composition is provided, containing an antibody which specifically binds to the LPS O11 antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and which has superior antibacterial activity.
9962419	Compositions comprising cocktails of antibacterial phages and uses thereof for the treatment of bacterial infections	The present invention is directed to the field of phage therapy for the treatment and control of bacterial infections, in particular diabetic foot infections. More specifically, the present invention is directed to novel cocktails of bacteriophage strains F44/10, F1 25/10, F770/05, F510/08, F1 245/05, and/or variants thereof; and methods of using same in the treatment and prevention of bacterial infections, including cutaneous ulcers associated with diabetic foot infections, caused by, e.g., Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and/or Acinetobacter baumannii. The cocktails are used as pharmaceutical compositions either alone or in further combination with other therapies, e.g., antibiotics, growth factors, or other standard, as well as non-standard, therapies for diabetic foot infections.
9969781	Compositions and methods to treat cancer with CpG rich DNA and cupredoxins	The present invention relates to compositions comprising CpG rich DNA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The compositions optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention includes specific CpG DNAs from Pseudomonas aeruginosa that are useful for treating cancer and other conditions in patients. These compositions are optionally in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and also optionally comprise a cupredoxin. The present invention further relates to methods to express proteins near cancer cells. These methods may be used to express therapeutic or diagnostic proteins near cancer cells in a patient suffering from cancer or other conditions, and can also be used for diagnosing cancer in a patient. This method uses the gene for azurin from P. aeruginosa as an expression system for azurin or heterologous proteins in P. aeruginosa or heterologous cells.
9987344	Pseudomonas antigens and antigen combinations	An effective Pseudomonas aeruginosa vaccine may require one or several antigenic components, and so various antigens of P. aeruginosa are identified for use in immunization. These polypeptides may optionally be used in combination with other nosocomial antigens.
9988380	Quorum sensing inhibitors	The invention relates to compounds for use as quorum sensing inhibitors, and in particular, to quorum sensing inhibitors of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
H1198	Pseudomonas aeruginosa type-specific human monoclonal antibodies, their	Serotype-specific human anti-Pseudomonas monoclonal antibodies which bind to determinants of the cell wall lipopolysaccharides of P. aeruginosa are prepared from hybrid cell lines. The antibodies may be of any isotype. These antibodies may be used to treat infections caused by P. aeruginosa.
H494	Pseudomonas aeruginosa type-specific murine monoclonal antibodies, their	Serotype-specific murine anti-Pseudomonas monoclonal antibodies which bind to determinants of the cell wall lipopolysaccharides of P. aeruginosa are prepared from hybrid cell lines. The antibodies may be of any isotype. These antibodies may be used to treat infections caused by P. aeruginosa.
