pmid	doi	title	abstract	year	month	day	jabbrv	journal	keywords	lastname	firstname
18726398	10.1007/BF02882395	Influence of pigment substitution on the electrochemical properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601 reaction centers.	With the help of pigment substitution, self-assembled monolayer film and square wave voltammetry, the influence of pigment substitution on the electrochemical properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601 reaction centers was investigated. Results showed that the charge separation could also be driven by externally electric field, similar to the primary photochemical reaction in purple bacterial reaction center. On the surface of Au electrode, a self-assembled monolayer film (the RC-PDDA-DMSA film) was made up of 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA), poly-dimethyldiallylammonium chloride (PDDA) and reaction center (RC). When square wave voltammetry was used to study the RC-PDDA-DMSA film, four redox pairs in the photochemical reaction of RC were observed by changing frequency. With nonlinear fitting, the standard potential of P/P(+) and the corresponding electrode reaction rate constant were determined to be 0.522 V and 13.04 S(-1), respectively. It was found that the redox peak at -0.02 V c	2009	12	16	Sci China C Life Sci	Science in China. Series C, Life sciences	NA	Zou	Y
16232981	10.1263/jbb.91.228	Salt-stress-responsive membrane proteins in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL 106.	The salt-mediated-stress response in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL 106 was investigated by culturing cells in the presence and in the absence of NaCl in growth media. Fractionation of cells followed by SDS-PAGE and 2D-PAGE revealed an increase in the levels of membrane proteins of 39 and 50 kDa and a decrease in the level of a membrane protein of 52 kDa with increasing levels of external NaCl. The proteins were isolated and sequenced. The polypeptide of 50 kDa in the inner membrane was assigned to an ATP synthase beta chain and that of 52 kDa in the outer membrane to a flagellar filament protein. As the N terminal of the 39 kDa protein in the outer membrane was blocked, partial proteolysis was carried out and four peptides were sequenced. Each sequence exhibited no significant homology with those available in databases, suggesting that the polypeptide of 39 kDa (named SspA) is a novel salt-stress-induced protein.	2005	11	1	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	NA	Xu	X
16228360	10.1023/A:1013831823701	The home stretch, a first analysis of the nearly completed genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is an alpha-3 purple nonsulfur eubacterium with an extensive metabolic repertoire. Under anaerobic conditions, it is able to grow by photosynthesis, respiration and fermentation. Photosynthesis may be photoheterotrophic using organic compounds as both a carbon and a reducing source, or photoautotrophic using carbon dioxide as the sole carbon source and hydrogen as the source of reducing power. In addition, R. sphaeroides can grow both chemoheterotrophically and chemoautotrophically. The structural components of this metabolically diverse organism and their modes of integrated regulation are encoded by a genome of approximately 4.5 Mb in size. The genome comprises two chromosomes CI and CII (2.9 and 0.9 Mb, respectively) and five other replicons. Sequencing of the genome has been carried out by two groups, the Joint Genome Institute, which carried out shotgun-sequencing of the entire genome and The University of Texas-Houston Medical School, which carried o	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Mackenzie	C
16228351	10.1023/A:1017907404325	Photoinhibition of carotenoidless reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides by visible light. Effects on protein structure and electron transport.	Inhibition of electron transport and damage to the protein subunits by visible light has been studied in isolated reaction centers of the non-sulfur purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Illumination by 1100 muEm(-2) s(-1) light induced only a slight effect in wild type, carotenoid containing 2.4.1. reaction centers. In contrast, illumination of reaction centers isolated from the carotenoidless R26 strain resulted in the inhibition of charge separation as detected by the loss of the initial amplitude of absorbance change at 430 nm arising from the P(+)Q(B) (-) --&gt; PQ(B) recombination. In addition to this effect, the L, M and H protein subunits of the R26 reaction center were damaged as shown by their loss on Coomassie stained gels, which was however not accompanied by specific degradation products. Both the loss of photochemical activity and of protein subunits were suppressed in the absence of oxygen. By applying EPR spin trapping with 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine we could det	2022	7	16	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Tandori	J
12035050		Isolation and Analysis of hupR Gene Required for the Expression of Hydrogenase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cosmid 1 containing the hup genes isolated from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied. The hupR gene from cosmid 1 was cloned and sequenced (EMBL accession number AJ243734). It encoded a 54.031 kD protein homologous to transcriptional regulators belonging to the superfamily of two-component regulatory systems. The HupR protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli in the form of His6-tagged HupR. The cloned hupR gene could restore hydrogenase activity in R.sphaeroides hupR mutants and activate hupSL gene transcription.	2019	11	20	Sheng Wu Hua Xue Yu Sheng Wu Wu Li Xue Bao (Shanghai)	Sheng wu hua xue yu sheng wu wu li xue bao Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	NA	Xu	D Q
11826972	10.1271/bbb.65.2741	A gene encoding phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase from Acetobacter aceti and some properties of its disruptant.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is a major component of membranes not only in eukaryotes, but also in several bacteria, including Acetobacter. To identify the PC biosynthetic pathway and its role in Acetobacter sp., we have studied Acetobacter aceti IFO3283, which is characterized by high ethanol oxidizing ability and high resistance to acetic acid. The pmt gene of A. aceti, encoding phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (Pmt), which catalyzes methylation of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) to PC, has been cloned and sequenced. One recombinant plasmid that complemented the PC biosynthesis was isolated from a gene library of the genomic DNA of A. aceti. The pmt gene encodes a polypeptide with molecular mass of either 25125, 26216, or 29052 for an about 27-kDa protein. The sequence of this gene showed significant similarity (44.3% identity in the similar sequence region) with the Rhodobacter sphaeroides pmtA gene which is involved in PE N-methylation. When the pmt gene was expressed in E. c	2002	7	22	Biosci Biotechnol Biochem	Bioscience, biotechnology, and biochemistry	Acetobacter; Acyltransferases; Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Cloning, Molecular; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Molecular Sequence Data; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Hanada	T
11748214	10.1074/jbc.C100664200	The interaction of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein with occupants of the Qo-site of the bc1 complex, probed by electron spin echo envelope modulation.	The bifurcated reaction at the Q(o)-site of the bc(1) complex provides the mechanistic basis of the proton pumping activity through which the complex conserves redox energy in the proton gradient. Structural information about the binding of quinone at the site is lacking, because the site is vacant in crystals of the native complexes. We now report the first structural characterization of the interaction of the native quinone occupant with the Rieske iron-sulfur protein in the bc(1) complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, using high resolution EPR. We have compared the binding configuration in the presence of quinone with the known structures for the complex with stigmatellin and myxothiazol. We have shown by using EPR and orientation-selective electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) measurements of the iron-sulfur protein that when quinone is present in the site, the isotropic hyperfine constant of one of the N(delta) atoms of a liganding histidine of the [2Fe-2S] cluster is simila	2002	3	21	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Binding Sites; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Ligands; Models, Chemical; Protein Binding; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter	Samoilova	Rimma I
11741920	10.1074/jbc.C100579200	A glutathione-dependent formaldehyde-activating enzyme (Gfa) from Paracoccus denitrificans detected and purified via two-dimensional proton exchange NMR spectroscopy.	The formation of S-hydroxymethylglutathione from formaldehyde and glutathione is a central reaction in the consumption of the cytotoxin formaldehyde in some methylotrophic bacteria as well as in many other organisms. We describe here the discovery of an enzyme from Paracoccus denitrificans that accelerates this spontaneous condensation reaction. The rates of S-hydroxymethylglutathione formation and cleavage were determined under equilibrium conditions via two-dimensional proton exchange NMR spectroscopy. The pseudo first order rate constants k(1)* were estimated from the temperature dependence of the reaction and the signal to noise ratio of the uncatalyzed reaction. At 303 K and pH 6.0 k(1)* was found to be 0.02 s(-1) for the spontaneous reaction. A 10-fold increase of the rate constant was observed upon addition of cell extract from P. denitrificans grown in the presence of methanol corresponding to a specific activity of 35 units mg(-1). Extracts of cells grown in the presence of su	2002	2	28	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Carbon-Sulfur Ligases; Culture Media; Formaldehyde; Glutathione; Kinetics; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Nitrogen Fixation; Paracoccus denitrificans	Goenrich	Meike
11735424	10.1021/bi011574z	Electrostatic interactions between charged amino acid residues and the bacteriochlorophyll dimer in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The extent of electrostatic contributions from the protein environment was assessed by the introduction of ionizable residues near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Two mutations at symmetry-related sites, M199 Asn to Asp and L170 Asn to Asp, resulted in a 48 and 44 mV lowering of the midpoint potential, respectively, compared to the wild type at pH 8, while a 75 mV decrease in the midpoint potential was observed for the mutation L168 His to Glu. The decrease relative to wild type was found to be approximately additive, up to 147 mV, for various combinations of the mutations. As the pH was lowered from 9.5 to 6.0, the relative decrease in the midpoint potential became smaller for each of these three mutations. Titration of the pH dependence of the change in midpoint potential of the M199 Asn to Asp mutant compared to wild type yielded a pK(a) value of 7.9 and a change in midpoint potential from low to high pH of 59 mV. The major effect of t	2002	1	30	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Williams	J C
11724567	10.1021/bi011585s	Identification of the proton pathway in bacterial reaction centers: decrease of proton transfer rate by mutation of surface histidines at H126 and H128 and chemical rescue by imidazole identifies the initial proton donors.	The pathway for proton transfer to Q(B) was studied in the reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The binding of Zn(2+) or Cd(2+) to the RC surface at His-H126, His-H128, and Asp-H124 inhibits the rate of proton transfer to Q(B), suggesting that the His may be important for proton transfer [Paddock, M. L., Graige, M. S., Feher, G. and Okamura, M. Y. (1999) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96, 6183-6188]. To assess directly the role of the histidines, mutant RCs were constructed in which either one or both His were replaced with Ala. In the single His mutant RCs, no significant effects were observed. In contrast, in the double mutant RC at pH 8.5, the observed rates of proton uptake associated with both the first and the second proton-coupled electron-transfer reactions k(AB)(()(1)()) [Q(A)(-)(*)Q(B)-Glu(-) + H(+) --&gt; Q(A)(-)(*)Q(B)-GluH --&gt; Q(A)Q(B)(-)(*)-GluH] and k(AB)(()(2)()) [Q(A)(-)(*)Q(B)(-)(*) + H(+) --&gt; Q(A)(-)(*)(Q(B)H)(*) --&gt; Q(A)(Q(B)H)(-)], were found 	2002	1	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alanine; DNA Mutational Analysis; Electron Transport; Histidine; Imidazoles; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Protein Binding; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Adelroth	P
11724566	10.1021/bi010778c	Functional evaluation of serine/threonine residues in the P-Loop of Rhodobacter sphaeroides phosphoribulokinase.	The N-terminal region of phosphoribulokinase (PRK) has been proposed to contain a "P-loop" or "Walker A" motif. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides PRK, four alcohol side chains, contributed by S14, T18, S19, and T20, map within the P loop and represent potential Mg-ATP ligands. Each of these has been individually replaced with an alanine and the impact of these substitutions on enzyme-ATP interactions and overall catalytic efficiency evaluated. Each mutant PRK retains the ability to tightly bind the positive effector, NADH (0.7-0.9 per site), and exhibits allosteric activation, suggesting that the proteins retain a high degree of structural integrity. Similarly, each mutant PRK retains the ability to stoichiometrically (0.7-1.2 per site) bind the alternative substrate trinitrophenyl-ATP. Despite the large size of the PRK oligomer (8 x 32 kDa), (31)P NMR can be used to detect stoichiometrically bound Mg-ATP substrate, which produces markedly broadened peaks in comparison with signals from unbou	2002	1	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Adenosine Triphosphate; Binding Sites; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; NAD; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Peptide Fragments; Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine; Threonine	Runquist	J A
11717511	10.1107/s0907444901015852	Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of the periplasmic nitrate reductase (NapA-NapB complex) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	The periplasmic nitrate reductase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans is a heterodimer responsible for the first step of reduction in the denitrification process by the conversion of nitrate to nitrite. It consists of a 91 kDa molybdenum-containing catalytic subunit (NapA) and a 17 kDa dihaem cytochrome c (NapB). Crystals of the NapA-NapB complex were obtained by the vapour-diffusion method using ammonium sulfate as precipitant. They belong to the P6(1)22 space group, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 151.9, c = 255.8 A, and contain a single complex in the asymmetric unit. A complete native data set was collected at a synchrotron source to 3.1 A resolution.	2002	1	23	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	2S Albumins, Plant; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Models, Molecular; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Plant Proteins; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pignol	D
11717272	10.1128/JB.183.24.7135-7144.2001	CheR- and CheB-dependent chemosensory adaptation system of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has multiple homologues of most of the Escherichia coli chemotaxis genes, organized in three major operons and other, unlinked, loci. These include cheA(1) and cheR(1) (che Op(1)) and cheA(2), cheR(2), and cheB(1) (che Op(2)). In-frame deletions of these cheR and cheB homologues were constructed and the chemosensory behaviour of the resultant mutants examined on swarm plates and in tethered cell assays. Under the conditions tested, CheR(2) and CheB(1) were essential for normal chemotaxis, whereas CheR(1) was not. cheR(2) and cheB(1), but not cheR(1), were also able to complement the equivalent E. coli mutants. However, none of the proteins were required for the correct polar localization of the chemoreceptor McpG in R. sphaeroides. In E. coli, CheR binds to the NWETF motif on the high-abundance receptors, allowing methylation of both high- and low-abundance receptors. This motif is not contained on any R. sphaeroides chemoreceptors thus far identified, although 	2001	12	26	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Adaptation, Biological; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Compartmentation; Chemotactic Factors; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Deletion; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Methanol; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Methyltransferases; Phosphorylation; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Martin	A C
11712133	10.1023/a:1018808328140	Substitution of valine-157 residue by tyrosine in the L-subunit of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center.	NA	2002	2	15	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Amino Acid Substitution; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine; Valine	Vasil'eva	L G
11705371	10.1021/bi011423w	Simultaneous replacement of Asp-L210 and Asp-M17 with Asn increases proton uptake by Glu-L212 upon first electron transfer to QB in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the first electron transfer to the secondary quinone acceptor Q(B) is coupled to the protonation of Glu-L212, located approximately 5 A from the center of Q(B). Upon the second electron transfer to Q(B), Glu-L212 is involved in fast proton delivery to the reduced Q(B). Since Asp-L210 and Asp-M17 play an important role in the proton transfer to the Q(B) site [Paddock, M. L., Adelroth, P., Chang, C., Abresch, E. C., Feher, G., and Okamura, M. Y. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 6893-6902], we investigated the effects of replacing one or both Asp residues with Asn on proton uptake by Glu-L212 using FTIR difference spectroscopy. Upon the first electron transfer to Q(B), the amplitude of the proton uptake by Glu-L212 at pH 8 is increased in the single and double mutant RCs, as is evident from the larger intensity (by 35-55%) of the carboxylic acid band at 1727 cm(-1) in the Q(B)(-)/Q(B) difference spectra of mutant RCs, compare	2001	12	7	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Aspartic Acid; Deuterium Oxide; Electron Transport; Glutamic Acid; Glutamine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Nabedryk	E
11705365	10.1021/bi015612q	Blue light drives B-side electron transfer in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	The core of the photosynthetic reaction center from the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a quasi-symmetric heterodimer, providing two potential pathways for transmembrane electron transfer. Past measurements have demonstrated that only one of the two pathways (the A-side) is used to any significant extent upon excitation with red or near-infrared light. Here, it is shown that excitation with blue light into the Soret band of the reaction center gives rise to electron transfer along the alternate or B-side pathway, resulting in a charge-separated state involving the anion of the B-side bacteriopheophytin. This electron transfer is much faster than normal A-side transfer, apparently occurring within a few hundred femtoseconds. At low temperatures, the B-side charge-separated state is stable for at least 1 ns, but at room temperature, the B-side bacteriopheophytin anion is short-lived, decaying within approximately 15 ps. One possible physiological role for B-side el	2001	12	7	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Cations; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pheophytins; Photolysis; Photons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature	Lin	S
11699870		Hydrophobicity and prediction of the secondary structure of membrane proteins and peptides.	Reliability of the hydropathy method to predict the formation of membrane-spanning alpha-helices by integral membrane proteins and peptides whose structure is known from X-ray crystallography is analysed. It is shown that Kyte-Doolittle hydropathy plots do not predict accurately 22 transmembrane alpha-helices in the reaction centres (RC) of the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodopseudomonas viridis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R-26). The accuracy of prediction for these proteins was improved using an optimised Kyte-Doolittle hydrophobicity scale. However, this hydrophobicity scale did not improve the predictions for the alphabeta-peptides of the B800-850 (LH2) complexes of the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodopseudomonas acidophila and Rhodospirillum molischianum, which were excluded from the optimisation procedure. The best and worst predictions of membrane-spanning alpha-helices for the RC proteins and LH2 peptides, respectively, were obtained with a propensity scale (PRC) calculated from the 	2002	4	11	Membr Cell Biol	Membrane &amp; cell biology	Algorithms; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptides; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodospirillum	Klevanik	A V
11698369	10.1128/JB.183.23.6807-6814.2001	The default state of the membrane-localized histidine kinase PrrB of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is in the kinase-positive mode.	The PrrBA two-component activation system of Rhodobacter sphaeroides plays a major role in the induction of photosynthesis gene expression under oxygen-limiting or anaerobic conditions. The PrrB histidine kinase is composed of two structurally identifiable regions, the conserved C-terminal kinase/phosphatase domain and the N-terminal membrane-spanning domain with six transmembrane helices framing three periplasmic and two cytoplasmic loops. Using a set of PrrB mutants with lesions in the transmembrane domain, we demonstrate that the central portion of the PrrB transmembrane domain including the second periplasmic loop plays an important role in both sensing and signal transduction. Signal transduction via the transmembrane domain is ultimately manifested by controlling the activity of the C-terminal kinase/phosphatase domain. The extent of signal transduction is determined by the ability of the transmembrane domain to sense the strength of the inhibitory signal received from the cbb(3)	2001	12	7	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Operon; Photosynthesis; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Oh	J I
11694395	10.1016/s1567-5394(01)00122-0	Electrochemical reactions of redox cofactors in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center proteins in lipid films.	Cyclic voltammetry of thin films made from the lipid dimyristoylphosphatidyl choline and reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides on pyrolytic graphite electrodes in bromide-free pH 8 buffers at 4 degrees C revealed an oxidation peak at 0.98 V and a reduction peak at -0.17 V vs. NHE. No reverse CV peaks were found, suggesting chemical irreversibility. The reduction peak disappeared for reaction centers depleted of quinones, suggesting that the peak represents reduction of this cofactor. The oxidation peak showed a catalytic current increase in the presence of small amounts of ferrous cytochrome c, and decreased by 85% when illuminated by visible light, suggesting assignment to the primary donor (P) cofactor. While oxidized primary donor P(+) is destroyed upon electrochemical formation in the film, reaction of ferrous cyt c with P(+) suggests its persistence in the films on the microsecond time scale.	2002	2	28	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Cytochrome c Group; Dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine; Electrochemistry; Electrodes; Graphite; Light; Membranes, Artificial; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Munge	B
11694298	10.1016/s0165-022x(01)00192-0	Advantages of quantitative affinity chromatography for the analysis of solute interaction with membrane proteins.	The use of membrane proteins as chromatographic stationary phases for the quantitation of biospecific interaction between the proteins and solutes is reviewed. This method is one among the few where a membrane protein is immobilized for repeated analyses of solute binding. To our knowledge, five transmembrane proteins have been immobilized in chromatographic matrices: the glucose and nucleoside transporters from human red blood cells, the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor from rat brain and a recombinant P-glycoprotein. Proteoliposomes and membrane vesicles have thereby been entrapped in size-exclusion beads, such as Superdex 200, and membrane proteins have been adsorbed on 'immobilized artificial membrane' monolayers of lipid analogs grafted to silica beads. Encouragingly, immobilized glucose transporter and P-glycoprotein showed constant interactant affinities for months. Analysis is done in the frontal mode at equilibri	2002	1	16	J Biochem Biophys Methods	Journal of biochemical and biophysical methods	Animals; Brain; Carrier Proteins; Chromatography, Affinity; Erythrocytes; Glucose Transporter Type 1; Humans; Membrane Proteins; Monosaccharide Transport Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rats; Receptors, Nicotinic; Recombinant Proteins; Solutions	Lundqvist	A
11679335	10.1128/AEM.67.11.5122-5126.2001	Characterization of the reduction of selenate and tellurite by nitrate reductases.	Preliminary studies showed that the periplasmic nitrate reductase (Nap) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the membrane-bound nitrate reductases of Escherichia coli are able to reduce selenate and tellurite in vitro with benzyl viologen as an electron donor. In the present study, we found that this is a general feature of denitrifiers. Both the periplasmic and membrane-bound nitrate reductases of Ralstonia eutropha, Paracoccus denitrificans, and Paracoccus pantotrophus can utilize potassium selenate and potassium tellurite as electron acceptors. In order to characterize these reactions, the periplasmic nitrate reductase of R. sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106 was histidine tagged and purified. The V(max) and K(m) were determined for nitrate, tellurite, and selenate. For nitrate, values of 39 micromol x min(-1) x mg(-1) and 0.12 mM were obtained for V(max) and K(m), respectively, whereas the V(max) values for tellurite and selenate were 40- and 140-fold lower, respectively. These low a	2002	1	17	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Cupriavidus necator; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Kinetics; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Nitrate Reductases; Nitrates; Oxidation-Reduction; Paracoccus; Paracoccus denitrificans; Periplasm; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selenic Acid; Selenium Compounds; Tellurium	Sabaty	M
11676534	10.1006/jmbi.2001.5069	The importance of zinc-binding to the function of Rhodobacter sphaeroides ChrR as an anti-sigma factor.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides extra cytoplasmic function sigma factor, sigma(E), directs transcription of promoters for the cycA gene (cycA P3) and the rpoEchrR operon (rpoE P1). These genes encode the periplasmic electron carrier cytochrome c(2) and sigma(E)/ChrR, respectively. Using in vitro transcription assays with purified R. sphaeroides core RNA polymerase and sigma(E), we show that ChrR is sufficient to inhibit sigma(E)-dependent transcription. Inhibition is proposed to proceed through a binding interaction, since sigma(E) and ChrR form a 1:1 complex that can be purified when expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli. Active preparations of ChrR and the sigma(E)/ChrR complex each contain stoichiometric zinc. Removal of zinc from ChrR or a single amino acid substitution that abolishes zinc binding, results in a protein that is incapable of inhibiting sigma(E) activity or forming a complex with the sigma factor, indicating that metal binding is important to ChrR activity. Treatme	2001	12	4	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Cysteine; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Dithionitrobenzoic Acid; Metalloproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Binding; Protein Interaction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sigma Factor; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Zinc	Newman	J D
11642451	10.1021/es010069m	Interaction of phenolic uncouplers in binary mixtures: concentration-additive and synergistic effects.	The uncoupling activities of 14 binary mixtures of substituted phenols and of 4 binary mixtures of phenols and anisols were investigated at different pH values. Experiments were performed with time-resolved spectroscopy on membrane vesicles (chromatophores) of the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Phenols are known to destroy the electrochemical proton gradient in energy-transducing membranes by a protonophoric mechanism. Anisols do not have protonophoric activity but disturb membrane structure and functioning as a nonspecific baseline toxicant. It was postulated in the literature that, for certain substituted phenols, the formation of a dimer between the phenoxide and the neutral phenol may contribute significantly to the overall protonophoric activity. In 13 of 14 mixtures of substituted phenols but in none of the mixtures of phenols with anisols, such a dimer appears to be formed between two different mixture partners. An extended shuttle mechanism of uncoupling, whic	2002	2	12	Environ Sci Technol	Environmental science &amp; technology	Anisoles; Chemical Phenomena; Chemistry, Physical; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Phenols; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Risk Assessment; Uncoupling Agents; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Escher	B I
11642450	10.1021/es010043v	pH dependence of the partitioning of triphenyltin and tributyltin between phosphatidylcholine liposomes and water.	Triorganotin compounds are very toxic contaminants. The site of their basic mechanism of action of acute toxicity is the biomembrane. Liposome-water distribution ratios of triphenyltin and tributyltin were determined between pH 3 and pH 8 with the equilibrium dialysis method in the micromolar concentration range, which is the concentration range where acute toxicity is observed. In addition, biomembrane-water distribution ratios of tributyltin were determined with chromatophores of Rhodobacter sphaeroides that contain approximately 70% protein intercalated in the lipid bilayer. The liposome-water distribution of both compounds showed only weak pH dependence. For tributyltin, the apparent distribution ratio decreased from 4100 at low pH to 2000 at high pH, while this ratio decreased from 70 000 to 22 000 for TPT. The distribution ratio of the triorganotin cation exceeded that of the neutral hydroxo complex by a factor of 2. The distribution ratio of both the cation and the hydroxo compl	2002	2	12	Environ Sci Technol	Environmental science &amp; technology	Anti-Infective Agents; Biological Availability; Cell Membrane; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Liposomes; Organotin Compounds; Phosphatidylcholines; Solubility; Trialkyltin Compounds; Water; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Hunziker	R W
11601982	10.1021/bi011334j	The electric field generated by photosynthetic reaction center induces rapid reversed electron transfer in the bc1 complex.	The cytochrome bc(1) complex is the central enzyme of respiratory and photosynthetic electron-transfer chains. It couples the redox work of quinol oxidation and cytochrome reduction to the generation of a proton gradient needed for ATP synthesis. When the quinone processing Q(i)- and Q(o)-sites of the complex are inhibited by both antimycin and myxothiazol, the flash-induced kinetics of the b-heme chain, which transfers electrons between these sites, are also expected to be inhibited. However, we have observed in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores, that when a fraction of heme b(H) is reduced, flash excitation induces fast (half-time approximately 0.1 ms) oxidation of heme b(H), even in the presence of antimycin and myxothiazol. The sensitivity of this oxidation to ionophores and uncouplers, and the absence of any delay in the onset of this reaction, indicates that it is due to a reversal of electron transfer between b(L) and b(H) hemes, driven by the electrical field generated by 	2001	12	5	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Antimycin A; Bacterial Chromatophores; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Energy Transfer; Heme; Kinetics; Methacrylates; Oxidation-Reduction; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thiazoles	Shinkarev	V P
11591680	10.1128/JB.183.21.6355-6364.2001	TspO as a modulator of the repressor/antirepressor (PpsR/AppA) regulatory system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The TspO outer membrane protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been shown to be involved in controlling the transcription of a number of genes which encode enzymes involved in photopigment biosynthesis and the puc operon. The display of regulated genes appears identical to those genes encompassing the PpsR/AppA repressor/antirepressor regulon, although the effect of TspO is modest relative to that of PpsR/AppA. To directly address the hypothesis that TspO is effective through the PpsR/AppA system, we constructed mutant strains with mutations in both tspO and appA. In all cases, the phenotypes examined resembled those of the appA lesion by itself, leading us to conclude that TspO works through or modulates the PpsR/AppA system and acts upstream of the site of action of these regulatory proteins. In earlier publications, we had suggested that TspO is involved in the efflux of a certain intermediate(s) of the porphyrin biosynthesis pathway and that transcriptional regulation of target gen	2001	12	4	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Coproporphyrinogen Oxidase; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Chemical; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Pyrroles; Regulon; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles; Transcription, Genetic; beta-Galactosidase	Zeng	X
11583170	10.1021/bi010115v	Role of the K-channel in the pH-dependence of the reaction of cytochrome c oxidase with hydrogen peroxide.	The reaction of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with hydrogen peroxide has been studied at alkaline (pH 8.5) and acidic (pH 6.5) conditions with the aid of a stopped-flow apparatus. Absorption changes in the entire 350-800 nm spectral range were monitored and analyzed by a global fitting procedure. The reaction can be described by the sequential formation of two intermediates analogous to compounds I and II of peroxidases: oxidized COX + H2O2 --&gt; intermediate I --&gt; intermediate II. At pH as high as 8.5, intermediate I appears to be a mixture of at least two species characterized by absorption bands at approximately 607 nm (P607) and approximately 580 nm (F-I580) that rise synchronously. At acidic pH (6.5), intermediate I is represented mainly by a component with an alpha-peak around 575 nm (F-I575) that is probably equivalent to the so-called F* species observed with the bovine COX. The data are consistent with a pH-dependent reaction branching at the step	2001	10	18	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Peroxide; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Mutation; Oxidants; Potassium Channels; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Pecoraro	C
11574544	10.1074/jbc.M107016200	Heme A is not essential for assembly of the subunits of cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a proteobacterium of the alpha subgroup, is structurally similar to the core subunits of the terminal oxidase in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Subunit I, the product of the coxI gene, normally binds two heme A molecules. A deletion of cox10, the gene for the farnesyltransferase required for heme A synthesis, did not prevent high level accumulation of subunit I in the cytoplasmic membrane. Thus, subunit I can be expressed and stably inserted into the cytoplasmic membrane in the absence of heme A. Aposubunit I was purified via affinity chromatography to a polyhistidine tag. Copurification of subunits II and III with aposubunit I indicated that assembly of the core oxidase complex occurred without the binding of heme A. In addition to formation of the apooxidase containing all three large structural proteins, CoxI-II and CoxI-III heterodimers were isolated from cox10 deletion strains harboring expression plasmid	2002	1	10	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cell Membrane; Cytoplasm; Electron Transport Complex IV; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Gene Deletion; Heme; Models, Biological; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Plasmids; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hiser	L
11571140	10.1128/AEM.67.10.4440-4447.2001	Effect of selenite on growth and protein synthesis in the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The effect of selenite on the growth rate and protein synthesis has been investigated in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This photosynthetic bacterium efficiently reduces selenite with intracellular accumulation under both dark aerobic and anaerobic photosynthetic conditions. Addition of 1 mM selenite under these two growth conditions does not affect the final cell density, although a marked slowdown in growth rate is observed under aerobic growth. The proteome analysis of selenite response by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis shows an enhanced synthesis of some chaperones, an elongation factor, and enzymes associated to oxidative stress. The induction of these antioxidant proteins confirms that the major toxic effect of selenite is the formation of reactive oxygen species during its metabolism. In addition, we show that one mutant unable to precipitate selenite, selected from a transposon library, is affected in the smoK gene. This encodes a constituent of a putative ABC transporter implic	2001	12	4	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Aerobiosis; Amino Acid Sequence; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Culture Media; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Selenite	Bebien	M
11562368	10.1074/jbc.M107436200	Evidence for the intertwined dimer of the cytochrome bc(1) complex in solution.	To confirm that the cytochrome bc(1) complex exists as a dimer with intertwining Rieske iron-sulfur proteins in solution, four Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants expressing His-tagged cytochrome bc(1) complexes containing two pairs of cysteine substitutions, one in the interface between the head domain of iron-sulfur protein (ISP) and cytochrome b and the other between the tail domain of ISP and cytochrome b, were generated and characterized. They are: K70C(ISP)/A185C(cytb).P33C(ISP)/G89C(cytb), K70C(ISP)/A185C(cytb).P33C(ISP)/M92C (cytb), K70C (ISP)/A185C(cytb).L34C(ISP)/V64C(cytb), and K70C(ISP)/A185C(cytb).N36C(ISP)/G89C(cytb). The K70C(ISP)/A185C(cytb) cysteine pair cross-links the head domain of ISP and cytochrome b; the P33C(ISP)/G89C(cytb), P33C(ISP)/M92C (cytb), L34C(ISP)/V64C(cytb), and N36C(ISP)/G89C(cytb) cysteine pairs cross-link the tail domain of ISP and cytochrome b. An adduct protein with an apparent molecular mass of 128 kDa containing two cytochrome b and two ISP protein	2002	1	10	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Dimerization; Disulfides; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions	Xiao	K
11557043	10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02769-7	Perfusion-induced redox differences in cytochrome c oxidase: ATR/FT-IR spectroscopy.	Attenuated total reflection (ATR) spectroscopy brings an added dimension to studies of structural changes of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) because it enables the recording of reaction-induced infrared difference spectra under a wide variety of controlled conditions (e.g. pH and chemical composition), without relying on light or potentiometric changes to trigger the reaction. We have used the ATR method to record vibrational difference spectra of CcO with reduction induced by flow-exchange of the aqueous buffer. Films of CcO prepared from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and beef heart mitochondria by reconstitution with lipid were adhered to the internal reflection element of the ATR device and retained their full functionality as evidenced by visible spectroscopy and time-resolved vibrational spectroscopy. These results demonstrate that the technique of perfusion-induced Fourier-transform infrared difference spectroscopy can be successfully applied to a large, complex enzyme, such as CcO, with su	2001	10	25	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Animals; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzymes, Immobilized; Mitochondria, Heart; Oxidation-Reduction; Perfusion; Phospholipids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Vibration	Nyquist	R M
11549017	10.1007/s002530100665	Cloning and sequencing of a gene encoding a novel salt stress-induced membrane protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. dentrificans.	The gene encoding a membrane protein, SspA, induced under salt stress conditions was cloned and sequenced from a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106. A single open reading frame consisting of 972 base pairs that encoded a polypeptide composed of a signal peptide of 24 amino acids and a mature protein of 300 amino acids (Mr 33,386) was found. A database search failed to detect any highly homologous sequences, indicating that SspA is a novel protein. The protein was present in the outer membrane as a transmembrane protein and was specifically induced by salt stress, but not by heat shock.	2002	2	11	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Cloning, Molecular; Heat-Shock Proteins; Heat-Shock Response; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sodium Chloride	Xu	X Y
11535790	10.1099/00221287-147-9-2505	Characterization of nirV and a gene encoding a novel pseudoazurin in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3.	Sequencing of the region flanking nirK, the gene encoding the copper-containing nitrite reductase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3, has identified two genes whose products could potentially be involved in nitrite reductase expression and activity. One of the genes has been designated nirV. Putative nirV orthologues are found in other denitrifiers, where they are also located downstream of the structural gene for nitrite reductase. The nirV in 2.4.3 is apparently cotranscribed with nirK. Inactivation of nirV had no effect on cell growth, or on nitrite reductase expression or activity. Downstream of nirV and divergently transcribed is a gene, designated ppaZ, encoding a protein with significant similarity to pseudoazurins from other denitrifiers. However, three of the four residues required for binding of the type I copper centre are not conserved in the deduced sequence of the protein in 2.4.3. ppaZ is expressed only when oxygen becomes limiting. ppaZ expression is dependent on both Fnr	2001	12	4	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Artificial Gene Fusion; Azurin; Base Sequence; Carrier Proteins; Copper; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Lac Operon; Maltose-Binding Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Nitrite Reductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Jain	Roshan
11530006	10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a002989	Structural basis of bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	The photosynthetic reaction center (RC) is the first membrane protein whose three-dimensional structure was revealed at the atomic level by X-ray crystallograph more than fifteen years ago. Structural information about RC made a great contribution to the understanding of the reaction mechanism of the complicated membrane protein complex. High-resolution structures of RCs from three photosynthetic bacteria are now available, namely, those from two mesophilic purple non-sulfur bacteria, Blastochloris viridis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and that from a thermophilic purple sulfur bacterium, Thermochromatium tepidum. In addition, a variety of structural studies, mainly by X-ray crystallography, are still being performed to give more detailed insight into the reaction mechanism of this membrane protein. This review deals with structural studies of bacterial RC complexes, and a discussion about the electron transfer reaction between RCs and electron donors is the main focus out of several to	2001	12	20	J Biochem	Journal of biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochromes; Electron Transport; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nogi	T
11526320	10.1107/s090744490101109x	Individual interactions influence the crystalline order for membrane proteins.	The role of contact interactions in the crystallization of membrane proteins was assessed by mutation of amino-acid residues on the surface of the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Five single-site mutants were constructed, with changes in contact regions found in the trigonal and tetragonal forms but not the orthorhombic form. Crystallization trials for the tetragonal form yielded either no crystals or crystals with an altered morphology, whereas crystals grew in the other two forms, indicating that these interactions are essential for the stability of the tetragonal crystals. Changes in the structures determined by X-ray diffraction of trigonal crystals for each mutant were related to the quality of the diffraction. Significant differences in the resolution limit of the crystals were associated with the loss of specific interactions between neighboring proteins. The results suggest that the contact regions are crucial for obtaining highly ordered crystals of membrane prot	2001	12	13	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Camara-Artigas	A
11526111	10.1074/jbc.M105786200	Alteration of product specificity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides phytoene desaturase by directed evolution.	Phytoene desaturases occurring in nature convert phytoene to either neurosporene or lycopene in most eubacteria. Approximately 10% of known phytoene desaturases, as in Rhodobacter, produce neurosporene, whereas the rest produce lycopene. These two types of enzymes, although similar in function, have relatively low similarity (below 60%) in terms of nucleotide or amino acid sequence. The mechanism controlling the product specificity of these enzymes is unclear. Here we used directed evolution to change the product of Rhodobacter sphaeroides phytoene desaturase (crtI gene product), a neurosporene-producing enzyme, to lycopene. Two generations of random mutagenesis were performed, from which three positive mutants were isolated and sequenced. We then used site-directed mutagenesis to determine the effect of each amino acid change. Gathering information from random mutagenesis, we further recombined the beneficial mutations by site-directed mutagenesis and increased the percent of lycopene	2001	12	7	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Directed Molecular Evolution; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	C W
11525663	10.1021/ja0035710	Modeling the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center. 4. The structural, electrochemical, and hydrogen-bonding properties of 22 mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Site-directed mutagenesis has been employed by a number of groups to produce mutants of bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers, with the aim of tuning their operation by modifying hydrogen-bond patterns in the close vicinity of the "special pair" of bacteriochlorophylls P identical with P(L)P(M). Direct X-ray structural measurements of the consequences of mutation are rare. Attention has mostly focused on effects on properties such as carbonyl stretching frequencies and midpoint potentials to infer indirectly the induced structural modifications. In this work, the structures of 22 mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been calculated using a mixed quantum-mechanical molecular-mechanical method by modifying the known structure of the wild type. We determine (i) the orientation of the 2a-acetyl groups in the wild type, FY(M197), and FH(M197) series mutants of the neutral and oxidized reaction center, (ii) the structure of the FY(M197) mutant and possible water penetration near the s	2001	10	4	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Water	Hughes	J M
11521095		Influence of acyl chain fluidity on the lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of complement.	Lipopolysaccharides (LPSs, endotoxins) are the major amphiphilic constituents of the outer leaflet of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. They are known to activate the complement cascade to form lytic membrane pores. Here, we study the influence of the fluidity of the acyl chains of LPSs and lipid As on the formation of lytic pores. To this end, we have performed electrical measurements on asymmetric planar endotoxin/phospholipid bilayers as a reconstitution model of the outer membrane using two deep rough mutant LPSs (from Escherichia coli strains WBB01 and WBB25) and two lipid As (from E. coli WBB25 and Rhodobacter sphaeroides). The two LPSs and the two lipid As each differ in their acylation pattern which is correlated with the fluidity. The addition of human serum to the endotoxin side of the bilayers led to the formation of membrane pores, and pore formation correlated in each case with acyl chain fluidity, i.e. time required for the first lytic pore to be formed was sh	2001	10	25	J Endotoxin Res	Journal of endotoxin research	Acylation; Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Complement Activation; Complement System Proteins; Electric Conductivity; Endotoxins; Escherichia coli; Gram-Negative Bacteria; Humans; Lipid A; Lipid Bilayers; Membrane Fluidity; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wiese	A
11518335	10.1078/0723-2020-00027	Aeration conditions affecting growth of purple nonsulfur bacteria in an organic wastewater treatment process.	Effects of aeration on purple nonsulfur bacteria (PnSB) were studied in photobioreactors. Bacterial community changes were analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). DGGE band pattern change was small and only few prominent bands were obtained at non-aeration condition. Sequencing results of the prominent DGGE bands obtained at this condition revealed that they represented mainly the PnSB, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris. On the other hand, under aerated condition, some prominent bands originated from heterotrophs appeared but no proliferation of PnSB was observed. FISH was applied to detect PnSB and their population was quantified. Maximum PnSB ratio (up to 80%) was obtained both at non-aeration condition and at constant ORPs less than -200 mV. In the presence of DO, Rps. palustris was more competitive to chemoheterotrophs than Rb. sphaeroides.	2002	2	14	Syst Appl Microbiol	Systematic and applied microbiology	Bioreactors; Ecosystem; Electrophoresis, Agar Gel; In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence; Light; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Waste Disposal, Fluid; Water Pollution, Chemical	Izu	K
11499922	10.1007/s002530100603	Construction of an expression vector for propionibacteria and its use in production of 5-aminolevulinic acid by Propionibacterium freudenreichii.	Several promoters from Propionibacterium freudenreichii subsp. shermanii were isolated using a promoter probe vector, pCVE1, containing the Streptomyces cholesterol oxidase gene (choA) as a reporter gene. Three of four promoters isolated exhibiting a strong activity in Escherichia coli also expressed a strong activity in P. freudenreichii subsp. shermanii IFO12426. Using two promoters with a strong activity and a previously constructed shuttle vector, pPK705, shuttling between E. coli and Propionibacterium. we constructed expression vectors for propionibacteria. To overproduce 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), which is the first intermediate in the synthesis of porphyrins, the ALA synthase gene (hemA) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was recombined with the expression vectors. The activity of ALA synthase in the recombinant P freudenreichii subsp. shermanii increased about 70-fold that in the strain without a vector. The recombinant Propionibacterium produced ALA at a maximum concentration of 8	2001	12	20	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Aminolevulinic Acid; Genetic Vectors; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Propionibacterium	Kiatpapan	P
11491088	10.1007/s002030100284	Growth of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus on the aromatic compound hippurate.	The purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus strain B10 grew phototrophically on the aromatic compound hippurate (N-benzoyl-L-glycine) and related benzoyl amino acids. Absorption spectra, extraction, and GC/MS analysis of culture supernatants showed that hippurate was stoichiometrically converted to benzoate and glycine, with the latter used as a carbon or nitrogen source for growth. This conclusion was supported by detection of the enzyme hippuricase in permeabilized intact cells. Chemotrophic growth on hippurate by Rba. capsulatus, either at full or reduced oxygen tensions, was not observed. The type strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides as well as four strains of Rhodopseudomonas palustris also grew phototrophically on hippurate, while several other aromatic-degrading species of purple bacteria did not.	2002	6	17	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Benzoates; Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry; Glycine; Hippurates; Rhodobacter capsulatus	Madigan	M T
11479704	10.1007/s002030100291	Characterisation of the mob locus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WS8: mobA is the only gene required for molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide synthesis.	The mob genes of several bacteria have been implicated in the conversion of molybdopterin to molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide. The mob locus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WS8 comprises three genes, mobABC. Chromosomal in-frame deletions in each of the mob genes have been constructed. The mobA mutant strain has inactive DMSO reductase and periplasmic nitrate reductase activities (both molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide-requiring enzymes), but the activity of xanthine dehydrogenase, a molybdopterin enzyme, is unaffected. The inability of a mobA mutant to synthesise molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide is confirmed by analysis of cell extracts of the mobA strain for molybdenum cofactor forms following iodine oxidation. Mutations in mobB and mobC are not impaired for molybdoenzyme activities and accumulate wild-type levels of molybdopterin and molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide, indicating they are not compromised in molybdenum cofactor synthesis. In the mobA mutant strain, the inactive DMSO 	2001	12	11	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Cloning, Molecular; Coenzymes; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Guanine Nucleotides; Iodine; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Metalloproteins; Molybdenum Cofactors; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Oxidoreductases; Periplasm; Pteridines; Pterins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Xanthine Dehydrogenase	Buchanan	G
11479699	10.1007/s002030100287	A novel system for heterologous expression of flavocytochrome c in phototrophic bacteria using the Allochromatium vinosum rbcA promoter.	Flavocytochrome c-sulfide dehydrogenase (FCSD), an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of sulfide to elemental sulfur in vitro, is common to bacteria that utilize reduced sulfur compounds as electron donors in the process of carbon dioxide fixation. FCSD is a heterodimer containing two different cofactors, a flavin (FAD) and one or two heme c groups, located on the separate protein subunits. Efforts to produce the holoproteins of the soluble Allochromatium vinosum FCSD and the membrane-bound Ectothiorhodospira vacuolata protein in Escherichia coli using several expression systems were unsuccessful. Although all systems used were able to export the recombinant FCSDs to the periplasm, the proteins did not incorporate heme. In order to develop a new expression system involving photosynthetic hosts (Rhodobacter capsulatus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Ect. vacuolata), plasmid mobilisation from E. coli donors was studied. In the search for efficient promoters for such hosts, a sy	2001	12	11	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Chromatiaceae; Conjugation, Genetic; Cytochrome c Group; DNA, Recombinant; Ectothiorhodospira; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Holoenzymes; Oxidoreductases; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase	De Smet	L
11479376	10.1093/pcp/pce083	Mutational analysis of regulatory cis-acting elements for the transcriptional activation of the dmsCBA operon in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	Four direct repeats of a 10-nt sequence, called dms boxes, are located upstream of the dmsCBA operon encoding dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106. Two dms boxes 1 and 2 have been shown to be binding sites of DmsR protein, a response regulator of a two-component system involved in the anaerobic induction by DMSO of DMSO reductase synthesis. In this study, functions of four dms boxes in the transcriptional regulation of the dmsCBA operon were investigated. The transcription start site of the dmsCBA genes was identified at the distance of 23 nt downstream of the closest dms box 4. Expression of the dmsC-lacZ gene fusion which included the dmsCBA promoter region containing the dms boxes was examined and its anaerobic induction by DMSO and DmsR-dependency were demonstrated in the phototroph. The examination with nucleotide substitutions in the four respective dms boxes showed that the set of four dms boxes is required for the dmsCBA oper	2002	5	31	Plant Cell Physiol	Plant &amp; cell physiology	Anaerobiosis; Artificial Gene Fusion; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Cytochromes; DNA Mutational Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Escherichia coli Proteins; Genes, Regulator; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Lac Operon; Molecular Sequence Data; Operon; Oxidoreductases; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptional Activation	Yamamoto	I
11478896	10.1021/bi010562a	Characterization of the binding of deuteroporphyrin IX to the magnesium chelatase H subunit and spectroscopic properties of the complex.	Magnesium protoporphyrin chelatase catalyzes the insertion of a Mg(2+) ion into protoporphyrin IX, which can be considered as the first committed step of (bacterio)chlorophyll synthesis. In the present work, the Mg chelatase H subunits from both Synechocystis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides were studied because of the differing requirements of these organisms for modified cyclic tetrapyrroles. Deuteroporphyrin was shown to be a substrate for Mg chelatase. Analytical HPLC gel filtration was used to show that an H-deuteroporphyrin complex can be reconstituted by incubating the magnesium chelatase H subunit with a molar excess of deuteroporphyrin and that these complexes are monomers. The binding process occurs in the absence of Mg(2+) or ATP or the I or D subunits of Mg chelatase. The emission from Trp residues in the H subunit is partly quenched when deuteroporphyrin is bound. Quantitative analysis of Trp fluorescence quenching led to determination of the K(d) values for deuteroporphyrin bi	2001	11	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Cyanobacteria; Deuteroporphyrins; Kinetics; Lyases; Macromolecular Substances; Peptide Fragments; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry	Karger	G A
11460542	10.1562/0031-8655(2001)074&lt;0081:tascop&gt;2.0.co;2	Thermal and structural changes of photosynthetic reaction centers characterized by photoacoustic detection with a broad frequency band hydrophone.	Photoacoustic measurements using a broad frequency band hydrophone were carried out in photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 purple bacteria. Data were extracted on enthalpy and volume changes accompanying the primary steps after excitation in the range of 0-500 microseconds aimed at further characterizing the thermodynamic properties of the RC. Quinone titration showed that the volume contraction accompanying the electron transport is sensitive to the molecular species occupying the secondary quinone site. delta VM = 14.4, 7.7 and 4.3 cm3 molar volume contractions were calculated from the measured parameters for 1, 2 and 0.07 quinone/RC after light excitation. Comparing the enthalpy changes (delta H) to the Gibbs free energy data in the literature, a rather large (26%) entropic contribution to the free energy changes (delta G) is estimated for the P*QAQB--&gt;P+QA-QB electron transport (where QA and QB represent primary and secondary quinones,	2001	8	16	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Electron Transport; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Nagy	L
11456813	10.1021/ja003546u	Bis(dithiolene)molybdenum analogues relevant to the DMSO reductase enzyme family: synthesis, structures, and oxygen atom transfer reactions and kinetics.	A series of dithiolene complexes of the general type [Mo(IV)(QR')(S(2)C(2)Me(2))(2)](1)(-) has been prepared and structurally characterized as possible structural and reactivity analogues of reduced sites of the enzymes DMSOR and TMAOR (QR' = PhO(-), 2-AdO(-), Pr(i)()O(-)), dissimilatory nitrate reductase (QR' = 2-AdS(-)), and formate dehydrogenase (QR' = 2-AdSe(-)). The complexes are square pyramidal with the molybdenum atom positioned 0.74-0.80 A above the S(4) mean plane toward axial ligand QR'. In part on the basis of a recent clarification of the active site of oxidized Rhodobacter sphaeroides DMSOR (Li, H.-K.; Temple, C.; Rajagopalan, K. V.; Schindelin, H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 7673), we have adopted the minimal reaction paradigm Mo(IV) + XO right arrow over left arrow Mo(VI)O + X involving desoxo Mo(IV), monooxo Mo(VI), and substrate/product XO/X for direct oxygen atom transfer of DMSOR and TMAOR enzymes. The [Mo(OR')(S(2)C(2)Me(2))(2)](1)(-) species carry dithiolene and 	2001	10	11	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Molecular Structure; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Organometallic Compounds; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors	Lim	B S
11456482	10.1021/bi010222p	Interaction between cytochrome c2 and the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: effects of charge-modifying mutations on binding and electron transfer.	The electrostatic interactions governing binding and electron transfer from cytochrome c(2) (cyt c(2)) to the reaction center (RC) from the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides were studied by using site-directed mutagenesis to change the charges of residues on the RC surface. Charge-reversing mutations (acid --&gt; Lys) decreased the binding affinity for cyt c(2). Dissociation constants, K(D) (0.3--250 microM), were largest for mutations of Asp M184 and nearby acid residues, identifying the main region for electrostatic interaction with cyt c(2). The second-order rate constants, k(2) (1--17 x 10(8) M(-1) s(-1)), increased with increasing binding affinity (log k(2) vs log 1/K(D) had a slope of approximately 0.4), indicating a transition state structurally related to the final complex. In contrast, first-order electron transfer rates, k(e), for the bound cyt did not change significantly (&lt;3-fold), indicating that electron tunneling pathways were unchanged by mutation. Char	2001	10	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Macromolecular Substances; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Tetreault	M
11443100	10.1128/JB.183.15.4643-4647.2001	Roles for the Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcmA and CcmG proteins.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells containing an in-frame deletion within ccmA lack detectable soluble and membrane-bound c-type cytochromes and are unable to grow under conditions where these proteins are required. Only strains merodiploid for ccmABCDG were found after attempting to generate cells containing either a ccmG null mutation or a ccmA allele that should be polar on to expression of ccmBCDG, suggesting that CcmG has another important role in R. sphaeroides.	2001	8	16	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Cytochromes; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Mutagenesis; Oxidoreductases; Periplasmic Proteins; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cox	R L
11442826	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2001.02468.x	The roles of the multiple CheW and CheA homologues in chemotaxis and in chemoreceptor localization in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has multiple homologues of most of the Escherichia coli chemotaxis genes, organized in two major operons and other, unlinked, loci. These include cheA1 and cheW1 (che Op1) and cheA2, cheW2 and cheW3 (che Op2). We have deleted each of these cheA and cheW homologues in-frame and examined the chemosensory behaviour of these strains on swarm plates and in tethered cell assays. In addition, we have examined the effect of these deletions on the polar localization of the chemoreceptor McpG. In E. coli, deletion of either cheA or cheW results in a non-chemotactic phenotype, and these strains also show no receptor clustering. Here, we demonstrate that CheW2 and CheA2 are required for the normal localization of McpG and for normal chemotactic responses under both aerobic and photoheterotrophic conditions. Under aerobic conditions, deletion of cheW3 has no significant effect on McpG localization and only has an effect on chemotaxis to shallow gradients in swarm plates. Und	2001	9	6	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Polarity; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Deletion; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Histidine Kinase; Luminescent Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Multigene Family; Propionates; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Martin	A C
11418686	10.4049/jimmunol.167.1.482	Diphosphoryl lipid A from Rhodobacter sphaeroides blocks the binding and internalization of lipopolysaccharide in RAW 264.7 cells.	Diphosphoryl lipid A derived from the nontoxic LPS of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsDPLA) has been shown to be a powerful LPS antagonist in both human and murine cell lines. In addition, RsDPLA also can protect mice against the lethal effects of toxic LPS. In this study, we complexed both the deep rough LPS from Escherichia coli D31 m4 (ReLPS) and RsDPLA with 5- and 30-nm colloidal gold and compared their binding to the RAW 264.7 cell line by electron microscopy. Both ReLPS and RsDPLA bound to the cells with the following observations. First, binding studies revealed that pretreatment with RsDPLA completely blocked the binding and thus internalization of ReLPS-gold conjugates to these cells at both 37 degrees C and 4 degrees C. Second, ReLPS was internalized via micropinocytosis (noncoated plasma membrane invaginations) involving formation of caveolae-like structures and leading to the formation of micropinocytotic vesicles, macropinocytosis (or phagocytosis), formation of clathrin-coated	2001	9	20	J Immunol	Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)	Animals; Binding Sites; Cell Line; Escherichia coli; Gold Colloid; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Mice; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kutuzova	G D
11418124	10.1016/s0014-5793(01)02537-6	Electrogenic proton transfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers: effect of coenzyme Q(10) substitution by decylubiquinone in the Q(B) binding site.	An electrometric technique was used to investigate the effect of coenzyme Q(10) (UQ), substitution by decylubiquinone (dQ) at the Q(B) binding site of reaction centers (UQ-RC and dQ-RC, respectively) on the electrogenic proton transfer kinetics upon Q(B) reduction in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores. Unlike dQ-RC, the kinetics of the second flash-induced proton uptake in UQ-RC clearly deviated from the mono-exponential one. The activation energy (about 30 kJ/mol) and the pH profile of the kinetics in dQ-RC were similar to those in UQ-RC, with the power law approximation used in the latter case. The interpretation of the data presumed the quinone translocation between the two binding positions within the Q(B) site. It is proposed that the native isoprenyl side chain (in contrast to decyl chain) favors the equilibrium binding of neutral quinone at the redox-active 'proximal' position, but causes a higher barrier for the hydroquinone movement from 'proximal' to 'distal' position.	2001	7	26	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Bacterial Chromatophores; Binding Sites; Coenzymes; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone	Gopta	O A
11409544	10.1007/s002030100271	Identification and characterization of a periplasmic nitrate reductase in Azospirillum brasilense Sp245.	The Azospirillum brasilense Sp245 napABC genes, encoding nitrate reductase activity, were isolated and sequenced. The derived protein sequences are very similar throughout the whole Nap segment to the NapABC protein sequences of Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas sp. G-179, Ralstonia eutropha, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Paracoccus denitrificans. Based on whole-cell nitrate reductase assays with the artificial electron donors benzyl viologen and methyl viologen, and assays with periplasmic cell-free extracts, it was concluded that the napABC-encoded enzyme activity in Azospirillum brasilense Sp245 corresponds to a periplasmic dissimilatory nitrate reductase, which was expressed under anoxic conditions and oxic conditions. A kanamycin-resistant Azospirillum brasilense Sp245 napA insertion mutant was constructed. The mutant still expressed assimilatory nitrate reductase activity, but was devoid of its periplasmic dissimilatory nitrate reductase activity.	2001	12	4	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Azospirillum brasilense; Cloning, Molecular; Genes, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Nitrate Reductases; Periplasm; Spheroplasts	Steenhoudt	O
11407917	10.1006/plas.2000.1505	Characterization and sequence analysis of the replicator region of the novel plasmid pALC1 from Paracoccus alcaliphilus.	The replicator region of a low-copy-number plasmid, pALC1, of Paracoccus alcaliphilus JCM 7364 was cloned in a form of the minireplicon pALC100 (3.6 kb). The host range of the minireplicon embraces several species of genus Paracoccus, as well as Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium leguminosarum, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (all belonging to alpha-Proteobacteria), but not Escherichia coli. The complete nucleotide sequence of the replicator region (2276 bp) revealed the presence of one complete open reading frame coding for the 28.4-kDa protein (RepA) with similarity to replication proteins of plasmid pSW500 of Erwinia stewartii and pVS1 of Pseudomonas fluorescens. The iteron-like region was identified upstream of the repA gene and consisted of two clusters of repeated sequences (17 bp long) separated by a putative DnaA box. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence of two adjacent incomplete ORFs suggests the localization of repA between genes involved in conjugation (traG) and par	2002	2	21	Plasmid	Plasmid	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Replication; Molecular Sequence Data; Paracoccus; Plasmids; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Transcription Factors	Bartosik	D
11389604	10.1021/bi010280a	Identification of the proton pathway in bacterial reaction centers: cooperation between Asp-M17 and Asp-L210 facilitates proton transfer to the secondary quinone (QB).	The reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses light energy to reduce and protonate a quinone molecule, Q(B) (the secondary quinone electron acceptor), to form quinol, Q(B)H2. Asp-L210 and Asp-M17 have been proposed to be components of the pathway for proton transfer [Axelrod, H. L., Abresch, E. C., Paddock, M. L., Okamura, M. Y., and Feher, G. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 97, 1542-1547]. To test the importance of these residues for efficient proton transfer, the rates of the proton-coupled electron-transfer reaction k(AB)(2) (Q(A-*)Q(B-*) + H+ &lt;==&gt;Q(A-*)Q(B)H* --&gt; Q(A)Q(B)H-) and its associated proton uptake were measured in native and mutant RCs, lacking one or both Asp residues. In the double mutant RCs, the k(AB)(2) reaction and its associated proton uptake were approximately 300-fold slower than in native RCs (pH 8). In contrast, single mutant RCs displayed reaction rates that were &lt; or =3-fold slower than native (pH 8). In addition, the rate-limiti	2001	8	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Aspartic Acid; Benzoquinones; Electron Transport; Glutamic Acid; Glutamine; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Peptides; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Paddock	M L
11352751	10.1021/bi0029191	Cu2+ site in photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter capsulatus, and Rhodopseudomonas viridis.	The interaction of metal ions with isolated photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter capsulatus, and Rhodopseudomonas viridis has been investigated with transient optical and magnetic resonance techniques. In RCs from all species, the electrochromic response of the bacteriopheophytin cofactors associated with Q(A)(-)Q(B) --&gt; Q(A)Q(B)(-) electron transfer is slowed in the presence of Cu(2+). This slowing is similar to the metal ion effect observed for RCs from Rb. sphaeroides where Zn(2+) was bound to a specific site on the surface of the RC [Utschig et al. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 8278]. The coordination environments of the Cu(2+) sites were probed with electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy, providing the first direct spectroscopic evidence for the existence of a second metal site in RCs from Rb. capsulatus and Rps. viridis. In the dark, RCs with Cu(2+) bound to the surface exhibit axially symmetric EPR spectra. 	2001	8	16	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cations, Divalent; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrum Analysis	Utschig	L M
11351422		Acute toxicity of (chloro-)catechols and (chloro-)catechol-copper combinations in Escherichia coli corresponds to their membrane toxicity in vitro.	(Chloro-)catechols are toxic for bacteria and higher organisms, but the mode of action is not yet clearly understood. We have compared the acute toxicity of different chlorinated catechols to Escherichia coli with membrane toxic effects, namely narcosis and uncoupling that we have determined in an in vitro assay. In vitro membrane toxicity was quantified by measuring the accelerated decay of the membrane potential of chromatophores isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Both acute and membrane toxicity increased with increasing degree of chlorination. Analysis of dose-response curves, pH dependence, and estimated membrane concentrations gave a consistent picture of the mechanisms of membrane toxicity: At pH 7, the higher-chlorinated catechols acted as uncouplers of oxidative and photophosphorylation, and the lower-chlorinated catechols and catechol acted as narcotics. In the case of 3,5-dichlorocatechol and 4-monochlorocatechol at pH 8.8, both mechanisms appeared to contribute to the o	2001	6	14	Environ Toxicol Chem	Environmental toxicology and chemistry	Catechols; Cell Membrane; Copper; Escherichia coli; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; In Vitro Techniques; Membrane Potentials	Schweigert	N
11341824	10.1021/bi002580i	Role of the core region of the PufX protein in inhibition of reconstitution of the core light-harvesting complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus.	PufX, the protein encoded by the pufX gene of Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, has been further characterized. The mature forms of these proteins contain 9 and 12 fewer amino acids, respectively, at the C-terminal end of the protein than are encoded by their pufX genes. To identify the portion of PufX responsible for inhibition of LH1 formation in reconstitution experiments, different regions (N-terminus and several core regions containing different lengths of the C-terminus) of Rb. sphaeroides and Rb. capsulatus PufX were chemically synthesized. Neither the N- nor C-terminal polypeptides of Rb. sphaeroides were inhibitory to LH1 reconstitution. However, all core segments were active, causing 50% inhibition at a concentration ratio of between 3:1 and 6:1 relative to the LH1 alpha-polypeptides whose concentrations were 3-4 microM. CD measurements indicated that the core segment containing 39 amino acids of Rb. sphaeroides PufX exhibited 47% alpha-helix in trifluoroeth	2001	8	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Circular Dichroism; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptide Fragments; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity	Parkes-Loach	P S
11339813	10.1006/abbi.2001.2330	Characterization of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c(2) proteins with altered heme attachment sites.	In c-type cytochromes, heme is attached to the polypeptide via thioether linkages between vinyl groups on the tetrapyrrole ring and cysteine thiols in a CX(2)CH motif. To study the role of the heme-binding site in c-type cytochrome assembly and function, we generated amino acid changes in this region of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c(2) ((15)Cys-Gln-Thr-Cys-His(19)). Amino acid substitutions at Cys(15), Cys(18), or His(19) produced mutant proteins that did not support growth via photosynthesis where this electron carrier is required. Many of these changes appeared to slow signal peptide removal, suggesting that heme attachment is coupled to processing of the c-type cytochrome precursor protein. Inserting an alanine between the cysteine ligands (CycA-Ins17A) did not significantly alter the behavior of this protein in vivo and in vitro, suggesting that the existence of 2 residues between cysteine thiols is not essential for heme attachment to a Class I c-type cytochrome like cytoch	2001	6	21	Arch Biochem Biophys	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Cysteine; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Escherichia coli; Heme; Ligands; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthesis; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Protein Sorting Signals; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	R..os-Vel..zquez	C
11339312	10.1016/s0302-4598(01)00098-8	Effect of D2O and cryosolvents on the redox properties of bacteriochlorophyll dimer and electron transfer processes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	Effects of environmental changes on the reaction pattern of excitation energy trapping and transformation into the "stable" radical pair P+Q(A)-, have been analyzed in isolated reaction centers of the anoxygenic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The following results were obtained: (a) replacement of exchangeable protons by deuterons significantly retarded the electron transfer steps of primary charge separation, leading to the radical pair P+I- and of the subsequent reoxidation of I- by the quinone acceptor Q(A) but has virtually no effect on the midpoint potential of P/P+ that was found to be 430+/-20 mV; (b) addition of 70% (v/v) glycerol causes a shift of Em by about 30 mV towards higher values whereas the kinetics of the electron transfer reactions remain almost unaffected; (c) in the presence of the cryoprotectant DMSO, a combined effect arises, i.e. a retardation of the electron transfer kinetics comparable to that induced by H/D exchange and simultaneously an upshift of	2001	9	20	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Bacteriochlorophylls; Deuterium Oxide; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents	Paschenko	V Z
11334788	10.1016/s0005-2728(01)00173-6	Site specific labeling of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers with dye probes for surface pH measurements.	Covalently bound pH sensitive dyes are an important tool for characterizing the proteolytic reactions of protein complexes that play key roles in biological energy transduction. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of this method for photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) for the first time, by the highly selective attachment of two thiol reactive derivatives of fluorescein to the two H subunit cysteines of the photosynthetic RC from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 The pK(a) shifts of the dyes upon binding to the protein and in response to high salt were measured, and interpreted based on the structure of the RC. 2-[(5-fluoresceinyl)aminocarbonyl]ethyl-methanethiosulfonate was attached to Cys H156 and fluorescein-5-maleimide to Cys H234. By following the absorption changes of bound fluorescein (500 nm), and those of the hydrophilic pH indicator 8-hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-tris-sulfonic acid (468 nm), the surface and bulk pH were monitored separately with less than 5% crosstalk. Flash-induced prot	2001	6	14	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Arylsulfonates; Binding Sites; Fluorescein; Fluorescent Dyes; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Surface Properties	Osv..th	S
11331765	10.1073/pnas.101037998	Two enzymes of diacylglyceryl-O-4'-(N,N,N,-trimethyl)homoserine biosynthesis are encoded by btaA and btaB in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Betaine lipids are ether-linked, nonphosphorous glycerolipids that resemble the more commonly known phosphatidylcholine in overall structure. Betaine lipids are abundant in many eukaryotes such as nonseed plants, algae, fungi, and amoeba. Some of these organisms are entirely devoid of phosphatidylcholine and, instead, contain a betaine lipid such as diacylglyceryl-O-4'-(N,N,N,-trimethyl)homoserine. Recently, this lipid also was discovered in the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides where it seems to replace phosphatidylcholine under phosphate-limiting growth conditions. This discovery provided the opportunity to study the biosynthesis of betaine lipids in a bacterial model system. Mutants of R. sphaeroides deficient in the biosynthesis of the betaine lipid were isolated, and two genes essential for this process, btaA and btaB, were identified. It is proposed that btaA encodes an S-adenosylmethionine:diacylglycerol 3-amino-3-carboxypropyl transferase and btaB an S-ade	2001	6	14	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Aminoacyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Methyltransferases; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Operon; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Triglycerides	Klug	R M
11328122	10.1103/PhysRevLett.86.4167	Exciton delocalization probed by excitation annihilation in the light-harvesting antenna LH2.	Singlet-singlet annihilation is used to study exciton delocalization in the light harvesting antenna complex LH2 (B800-B850) from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The characteristic femtosecond decay constants of the high intensity isotropic and the low intensity anisotropy kinetics of the B850 ring are related to the hopping time tau(h) and the coherence length N(coh) of the exciton. Our analysis yields N(coh) = 2.8+/-0.4 and tau(h) = 0.27+/-0.05 ps. This approach can be seen as an extension to the concept of the spectroscopic ruler.	2001	7	5	Phys Rev Lett	Physical review letters	Anisotropy; Bacterial Proteins; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Trinkunas	G
11327848	10.1021/bi0021636	Retardation of proton transfer caused by binding of the transition metal ion to the bacterial reaction center is due to pKa shifts of key protonatable residues.	Transition metal ions bind to the reaction center (RC) protein of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and slow the light-induced electron and proton transfer to the secondary quinone, Q(B). We studied the properties of the metal ion-RC complex by measuring the pH dependence of the dissociation constant and the stoichiometry of proton release upon ligand formation. We investigated the mechanism of inhibition by measuring the stoichiometry and kinetics of flash-induced proton binding, the transfer of (first and second) electrons to Q(B), and the rate of steady-state turnover of the RC in the absence and presence of Cd(2+) and Ni(2+) on a wide pH range. The following results were obtained. (1) The complexation of transition metal ions Cd(2+) and Ni(2+) with the bacterial RC showed strong pH dependence. This observation was explained by different (pH-dependent) states of the metal-ligand cluster: the complex formation was strong when the ligand (Asp and His residues) was d	2001	5	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Azides; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Cations, Divalent; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Ligands; Metals; Models, Chemical; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Static Electricity	Gerencs..r	L
11327844	10.1021/bi001686a	Equilibrium and kinetic parameters for the binding of inhibitors to the QB pocket in bacterial chromatophores: dependence on the state of QA.	The equilibrium and kinetic parameters for the binding of various inhibitors to the Q(B) pocket of the bacterial reaction center were investigated in chromatophores from Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. By monitoring the near-IR absorption changes specific to Q(A)(-) and Q(B)(-), we measured the fraction of inhibited centers in the dark and the kinetics and extent of inhibitor displacement after one flash due to the formation of the Q(A)Q(B)(-) state. The inhibitor release rate was much faster for triazines and o-phenanthroline (t(1/2) in the 50 ms to 1 s range) than for stigmatellin (t(1/2) approximately 20 s). For inhibitors with a rapid release rate, the fast phase of P(+) decay observed in the absence of secondary donor reflects the competition between P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination and inhibitor release: it is thus faster than the P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination, and its relative extent is smaller than the fraction of initially inhibited centers. At appropriate inhibitor c	2001	5	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Benzoquinones; Betaproteobacteria; Binding, Competitive; Herbicides; Kinetics; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polyenes; Quinones; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Titrimetry; Triazines	Ginet	N
11327819	10.1021/bi0018988	C-terminal truncation and histidine-tagging of cytochrome c oxidase subunit II reveals the native processing site, shows involvement of the C-terminus in cytochrome c binding, and improves the assay for proton pumping.	To enable metal affinity purification of cytochrome c oxidase reconstituted into phospholipid vesicles, a histidine-tag was engineered onto the C-terminal end of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase subunit II. Characterization of the natively processed wildtype oxidase and artificially processed forms (truncated with and without a his-tag) reveals Km values for cytochrome c that are 6-14-fold higher for the truncated and his-tagged forms than for the wildtype. This lowered ability to bind cytochrome c indicates a previously undetected role for the C-terminus in cytochrome c binding and is mimicked by reduced affinity for an FPLC anion exchange column. The elution profiles and kinetics indicate that the removal of 16 amino acids from the C-terminus, predicted from the known processing site of the Paracoccus denitrificans oxidase, does not produce the same enzyme as the native processing reaction. MALDI-TOF MS data show the true C-terminus of subunit II is at serine 290, thr	2001	5	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Binding Sites; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Histidine; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidoreductases; Peptide Fragments; Phospholipids; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Proton Pumps; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Hiser	C
11325943	10.1128/JB.183.10.3142-3148.2001	The N terminus of FliM is essential to promote flagellar rotation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	FliM is part of the flagellar switch complex. Interaction of this protein with phospho-CheY (CheY-P) through its N terminus constitutes the main information relay point between the chemotactic system and the flagellum. In this work, we evaluated the role of the N terminus of FliM in the swimming behavior of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Strains expressing the FliM protein with substitutions in residues previously reported in Escherichia coli as being important for interaction with CheY showed an increased stop frequency compared with wild-type cells. In accordance, we observed that R. sphaeroides cells expressing FliM lacking either the first 13 or 20 amino acids from the N terminus showed a stopped phenotype. We show evidence that FliMDelta13 and FliMDelta20 are stable proteins and that cells expressing them allow flagellin export at levels indistinguishable from those detected for the wild-type strain. These results suggest that the N-terminal region of FliM is required to promote swimmin	2001	5	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Alleles; Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Flagella; Flagellin; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Poggio	S
11325707	10.1016/S0006-3495(01)76177-2	pH-dependent structural changes at the Heme-Copper binuclear center of cytochrome c oxidase.	The resonance Raman spectra of the aa3 cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reveal pH-dependent structural changes in the binuclear site at room temperature. The binuclear site, which is the catalytic center of the enzyme, possesses two conformations at neutral pH, assessed from their distinctly different Fe-CO stretching modes in the resonance Raman spectra of the CO complex of the fully reduced enzyme. The two conformations (alpha and beta) interconvert reversibly in the pH 6-9 range with a pKa of 7.4, consistent with Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy measurements done at cryogenic temperatures (D.M. Mitchell, J.P. Sapleigh, A.M.Archer, J.O. Alben, and R.B.Gennis, 1996, Biochemistry 35:9446-9450). It is postulated that the different structures result from a change in the position of the Cu(B) atom with respect to the CO due to the presence of one or more ionizable groups in the vicinity of the binuclear center. The conserved tyrosine residue (Tyr-288 in R. sphaeroi	2001	7	26	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Animals; Binding Sites; Catalytic Domain; Cattle; Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Temperature; Tyrosine	Das	T K
11315111		Regulation of nitrogenase in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing draTG and nifHDK genes from Rhodobacter capsulatus.	The photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodospirillum rubrum regulate their nitrogenase activity by the reversible ADP-ribosylation of nitrogenase Fe-protein in response to ammonium addition or darkness. This regulation is mediated by two enzymes, dinitrogenase reductase ADP-ribosyl transferase (DRAT) and dinitrogenase reductase activating glycohydrolase (DRAG). Recently, we demonstrated that another photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, appears to have no draTG genes, and no evidence of Fe-protein ADP-ribosylation was found in this bacterium under a variety of growth and incubation conditions. Here we show that four different strains of Rba. sphaeroides are incapable of modifying Fe-protein, whereas four out of five Rba. capsulatus strains possess this ability. Introduction of Rba. capsulatus draTG and nifHDK (structural genes for nitrogenase proteins) into Rba. sphaeroides had no effect on in vivo nitrogenase activity and on nitrogenase switch-off by ammo	2001	8	16	Can J Microbiol	Canadian journal of microbiology	ADP Ribose Transferases; Carrier Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Glycoside Hydrolases; Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins; N-Glycosyl Hydrolases; Nitrogen Fixation; Nitrogenase; Nuclear Proteins; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity	Yakunin	A F
11297443	10.1021/bi002257f	Excitation trap approach to analyze size and pigment-pigment coupling: reconstitution of LH1 antenna of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with Ni-substituted bacteriochlorophyll.	Replacement of the central Mg in chlorophylls by Ni opens an ultrafast (tens of femtoseconds time range) radiationless de-excitation path, while the principal ground-state absorption and coordination properties of the pigment are retained. A method has been developed for substituting the native bacteriochlorophyll a by Ni-bacteriochlorophyll a ([Ni]-BChl) in the light harvesting antenna of the core complex (LH1) from the purple bacterium, Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides, to investigate its unit size and excited state properties. The components of the complex have been extracted with an organic solvent from freeze-dried membranes of an LH1-only strain of Rb. sphaeroides and transferred into the micelles of n-octyl-beta-glucopyranoside (OG). Reconstitution was achieved by solubilization in 3.4% OG, followed by dilution, yielding a complex nearly identical to the native one, in terms of absorption, fluorescence, and circular dichroism spectra as well as energy transfer efficiency from carot	2001	6	14	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Circular Dichroism; Energy Transfer; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Nickel; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Structure-Activity Relationship	Fiedor	L
11284681	10.1021/bi001589h	X-ray structure analyses of photosynthetic reaction center variants from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: structural changes induced by point mutations at position L209 modulate electron and proton transfer.	The structures of the reaction center variants Pro L209 --&gt; Tyr, Pro L209 --&gt; Phe, and Pro L209 --&gt; Glu from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been determined by X-ray crystallography to 2.6-2.8 A resolution. These variants were constructed to interrupt a chain of tightly bound water molecules that was assumed to facilitate proton transfer from the cytoplasm to the secondary quinone Q(B) [Baciou, L., and Michel, H. (1995) Biochemistry 34, 7967-7972]. However, the amino acid exchanges Pro L209 --&gt; Tyr and Pro L209 --&gt; Phe do not interrupt the water chain. Both aromatic side chains are oriented away from this water chain and interact with three surrounding polar side chains (Asp L213, Thr L226, and Glu H173) which are displaced by up to 2.6 A. The conformational changes induced by the bulky aromatic rings of Tyr L209 and Phe L209 lead to unexpected displacements of Q(B) compared to the wild-type protein. In the structure of the Pro L209 --&gt	2001	6	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Computer Simulation; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Genetic Variation; Glutamic Acid; Models, Molecular; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Proline; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Kuglstatter	A
11278798	10.1074/jbc.M010965200	An active site tyrosine influences the ability of the dimethyl sulfoxide reductase family of molybdopterin enzymes to reduce S-oxides.	Dimethyl sulfoxide reductase (DMSOR), trimethylamine-N-oxide reductase (TMAOR), and biotin sulfoxide reductase (BSOR) are members of a class of bacterial oxotransferases that contain the bis(molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide)molybdenum cofactor. The presence of a Tyr residue in the active site of DMSOR and BSOR that is missing in TMAOR has been implicated in the inability of TMAOR, unlike DMSOR and BSOR, to utilize S-oxides. To test this hypothesis, Escherichia coli TMAOR was cloned and expressed at high levels, and site-directed mutagenesis was utilized to generate the Tyr-114 --&gt; Ala and Phe variants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides DMSOR and insert a Tyr residue into the equivalent position in TMAOR. Although all of the mutants turn over in a manner similar to their respective wild-type enzymes, mutation of Tyr-114 in DMSOR results in a decreased specificity for S-oxides and an increased specificity for trimethylamine-N-oxide (Me(3)NO), with a greater change observed for DMSOR-Y114A. 	2001	5	31	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Chromatography, Affinity; Chromatography, Ion Exchange; Cloning, Molecular; Coenzymes; Escherichia coli; Genetic Variation; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Metalloproteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Molybdenum Cofactors; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxides; Oxidoreductases; Protein Conformation; Pteridines; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrophotometry; Tyrosine	Johnson	K E
11258912	10.1021/bi002126e	Absorption changes induced by the binding of triazines to the QB pocket in reaction centers of Rhodobacter capsulatus.	Inhibitors which block electron transfer from the primary (Q(A)) to the secondary (Q(B)) quinone of the bacterial reaction center are competing with the pool ubiquinones for binding at the Q(B) pocket. Due to the much greater stability of the semiquinone state Q(B)(-) compared with fully oxidized or reduced quinone, a displacement of the inhibitors takes place after one flash from state Q(A)(-)I to state Q(A)Q(B)(-). This process can be monitored from near-IR absorption changes which reflect local absorption shifts specific to Q(A)(-) and Q(B)(-). An anomalous behavior was observed when using triazines in chromatophores of R. capsulatus: the IR absorption change reflecting the formation of Q(B)(-) after one flash was absent. A normal transient decay of this signal was, however, triggered by a second flash, followed by a rapid return to the baseline. We show that this phenomenon is due to an absorption change induced by inhibitor binding (thus present in the dark baseline), with a spect	2001	5	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Atrazine; Binding, Competitive; Electron Transport; Herbicides; Kinetics; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Triazines	Ginet	N
11255130	10.1023/a:1002851817005	Charge separation in photosynthetic reaction centers under femtosecond excitation.	The process of electron transfer from the primary electron donor P* to the primary electron acceptor BA in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 under 30 fsec pulse excitation was studied in this work with the aim of establishing a relationship between the nuclear subsystem motion and charge transfer. For this purpose the fsec and psec oscillations in the bands of stimulated emission of P* and in the band of reaction product BA- at 1020 nm were investigated. It was established that the reversible formation of the P+BA- state is characterized by two vibration modes (130 and 320 cm(-1)) and connected with an arrival of the wavepacket induced by fsec excitation to the intersection of potential surfaces P*BA and P+BA-. The irreversible formation of the P+BA- state with the time constant of 3 psec is followed by oscillations with frequencies of 9 and 33 cm(-1). These results show that the irreversibility of electron transfer is determined by two factors: 1) by a difference bet	2001	6	14	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yakovlev	A G
11251830	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2001.02299.x	Generalized approach to the regulation and integration of gene expression.	The volume of electron flow through the cbb3 branch of the electron transport chain and the redox state of the quinone pool generate signals that regulate photosynthesis gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. An inhibitory signal is generated at the level of the catalytic subunit of the cbb3 cytochrome c oxidase and is transduced through the membrane-localized PrrC polypeptide to the PrrBA two-component activation system, which controls the expression of most of the photosynthesis genes in response to O2. The redox state of the quinone pool is monitored by the redox-active AppA antirepressor protein, which determines the functional state of the PpsR repressor protein. The antirepressor/repressor system as well as a modulator of AppA function, TspO, together with FnrL and PrrA stringently control photopigment gene expression. These regulatory elements, together with spectral complex-specific assembly factors, control the ultimate cellular levels and composition of the photosyntheti	2001	9	27	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Oh	J I
11245794	10.1016/s0005-2728(00)00259-0	Long-lived charge-separated states in bacterial reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We studied the accumulation of long-lived charge-separated states in reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, using continuous illumination, or trains of single-turnover flashes. We found that under both conditions a long-lived state was produced with a quantum yield of about 1%. This long-lived species resembles the normal P(+)Q(-) state in all respects, but has a lifetime of several minutes. Under continuous illumination the long-lived state can be accumulated, leading to close to full conversion of the reaction centers into this state. The lifetime of this accumulated state varies from a few minutes up to more than 20 min, and depends on the illumination history. Surprisingly, the lifetime and quantum yield do not depend on the presence of the secondary quinone, Q(B). Under oxygen-free conditions the accumulation was reversible, no changes in the normal recombination times were observed due to the intense illumination. The long-lived state is responsible for most of t	2001	4	26	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electromagnetic Fields; Electron Transport; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors	van Mourik	F
11240399	10.1023/a:1002893915632	Effects of extraction of the H-subunit from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers on relaxation processes associated with charge separation.	Effects of extraction of the H-subunit from Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) on the characteristics of the photoinduced conformational transition associated with electron transfer between photoactive bacteriochlorophyll and primary quinone acceptor were studied. Extraction of the H-subunit (i.e., the subunit that is not directly bound to electron transfer cofactors) was found to have a significant effect on the dynamic properties of the protein--pigment complex of the RC, the effect being mediated by modification of parameters of the relaxation processes associated with charge separation.	2001	5	17	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Darkness; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Knox	P P
11222600	10.1128/JB.183.6.2013-2024.2001	Mobile cytochrome c2 and membrane-anchored cytochrome cy are both efficient electron donors to the cbb3- and aa3-type cytochrome c oxidases during respiratory growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We have recently established that the facultative phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, like the closely related Rhodobacter capsulatus species, contains both the previously characterized mobile electron carrier cytochrome c2 (cyt c2) and the more recently discovered membrane-anchored cyt cy. However, R. sphaeroides cyt cy, unlike that of R. capsulatus, is unable to function as an efficient electron carrier between the photochemical reaction center and the cyt bc1 complex during photosynthetic growth. Nonetheless, R. sphaeroides cyt cy can act at least in R. capsulatus as an electron carrier between the cyt bc1 complex and the cbb3-type cyt c oxidase (cbb3-Cox) to support respiratory growth. Since R. sphaeroides harbors both a cbb3-Cox and an aa3-type cyt c oxidase (aa3-Cox), we examined whether R. sphaeroides cyt cy can act as an electron carrier to either or both of these respiratory terminal oxidases. R. sphaeroides mutants which lacked either cyt c2 or cyt cy and either t	2001	4	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Cell Membrane; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Mutation; NAD; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen Consumption; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Daldal	F
11222309	10.1016/S0006-3495(01)76121-8	Effect of high pressure on the photochemical reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26.1.	High-pressure studies on the photochemical reaction center from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, strain R26.1, shows that, up to 0.6 GPa, this carotenoid-less membrane protein does not loose its three-dimensional structure at room temperature. However, as evidenced by Fourier-transform preresonance Raman and electronic absorption spectra, between the atmospheric pressure and 0.2 GPa, the structure of the bacterial reaction center experiences a number of local reorganizations in the binding site of the primary electron donor. Above that value, the apparent compressibility of this membrane protein is inhomogeneous, being most noticeable in proximity to the bacteriopheophytin molecules. In this elevated pressure range, no more structural reorganization of the primary electron donor binding site can be observed. However, its electronic structure becomes dramatically perturbed, and the oscillator strength of its Q(y) electronic transition drops by nearly one order of ma	2001	5	3	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photochemistry; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Gall	A
11222300	10.1016/S0006-3495(01)76112-7	Is there a conserved interaction between cardiolipin and the type II bacterial reaction center?	In a recent publication, the structural details of an interaction between the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center and the anionic phospholipid diphosphatidyl glycerol (cardiolipin) were described (K. E. McAuley, P. K. Fyfe, J. P. Ridge, N. W. Isaacs, R. J. Cogdell, and M. R. Jones, 1999, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96:14706-14711). This was the first crystallographic description of an interaction between this biologically important lipid and an integral membrane protein and was also the first piece of evidence that the reaction center has a specific interaction with cardiolipin. We have examined the extent to which the residues that interact with the cardiolipin are conserved in other species of photosynthetic bacteria with this type of reaction center and discuss the possibility that this cardiolipin binding site is a conserved feature of these reaction centers. We look at how sequence variations that would affect the shape of the cardiolipin binding site might affect the protei	2001	5	3	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Cardiolipins; Conserved Sequence; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas	Wakeham	M C
11179962	10.1046/j.1432-1327.2001.01951.x	Pumping capacity of bacterial reaction centers and backpressure regulation of energy transduction.	Transduction of free-energy by Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction-center-light-harvesting-complex-1 (RCLH1) was quantified. RCLH1 complexes were reconstituted into liposomal membranes. The capacity of the RCLH1 complex to build up a proton motive force was examined at a range of incident light intensities, and induced proton permeabilities, in the presence of artificial electron donors and acceptors. Experiments were also performed with RCLH1 complexes in which the midpoint potential of the reaction center primary donor was modified over an 85-mV range by replacement of the tyrosine residue at the M210 position of the reaction center protein by histidine, phenylalanine, leucine or tryptophan. The intrinsic driving force with which the reaction center pumped protons tended to decrease as the midpoint potential of the primary donor was increased. This observation is discussed in terms of the control of the energetics of the first steps in light-driven electron transfer on the thermodynamic	2001	4	5	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Electron Transport; Light; Liposomes; Membrane Potentials; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pressure; Proton Pumps; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	van Rotterdam	B J
11170471	10.1021/bi001842d	Kinetic and mechanistic properties of biotin sulfoxide reductase.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans biotin sulfoxide reductase catalyzes the reduction of d-biotin d-sulfoxide (BSO) to biotin. Initial rate studies of the homogeneous recombinant enzyme, expressed in Escherichia coli, have demonstrated that the purified protein utilizes NADPH as a facile electron donor in the absence of any additional auxiliary proteins. We have previously shown [Pollock, V. V., and Barber, M. J. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 3355-3362] that, at pH 8 and in the presence of saturating concentrations of BSO, the enzyme exhibits, a marked preference for NADPH (k(cat,app) = 500 s(-1), K(m,app) = 269 microM, and k(cat,app)/K(m,app) = 1.86 x 10(6) M(-1) s(-1)) compared to NADH (k(cat,app) = 47 s(-1), K(m,app) = 394 microM, and k(cat,app)/K(m,app) = 1.19 x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1)). Production of biotin using NADPH as the electron donor was confirmed by both the disk biological assay and by reversed-phase HPLC analysis of the reaction products. The purified enzyme also utiliz	2001	4	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriological Techniques; Binding, Competitive; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Coenzymes; Deuterium; Diethyl Pyrocarbonate; Enzyme Activation; Guanine Nucleotides; Kinetics; Metalloproteins; Molybdenum Cofactors; NADP; Oxidoreductases; Potassium Cyanide; Pteridines; Pterins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Tungsten	Pollock	V V
11170424	10.1021/bi001055g	Protein control of the redox potential of the primary quinone acceptor in reactioncCenters from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The role of the protein environment in determining the redox midpoint potential (E(m)) of Q(A), the primary quinone of bacterial reaction centers, was investigated by mutation of isoleucine at position 265 of the M subunit in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Isoleucine was changed to threonine, serine, and valine, yielding mutants M265IT, M265IS, and M265IV, respectively. All three mutants, with smaller residues replacing isoleucine, exhibited decreased binding affinities of the Q(A) site for various quinone analogues, consistent with an enlargement or loosening of the headgroup binding domain and a decrease in the van der Waals contact for small quinones. In all other respects, M265IV was like the wild type, but the polar mutants, M265IT and M265IS, had unexpectedly dramatic decreases in the redox midpoint potential of Q(A), resulting in faster rates of P(+)Q(A)(-) charge recombination. For both anthraquinone and native ubiquinone, the in situ E(m) of Q(A) was estimated to be approximately 10	2001	3	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Isoleucine; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Naphthoquinones; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine; Threonine; Ubiquinone	Takahashi	E
11160099	10.1128/JB.183.5.1680-1687.2001	The hook gene (flgE) is expressed from the flgBCDEF operon in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: study of an flgE mutant.	In this work we identified the flgE gene encoding the flagellar hook protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Our results show that this gene is part of a flagellar cluster that includes the genes flgB, flgC, flgD, flgE, and flgF. Two different types of mutants in the flgE gene were isolated, and both showed a Fla(-) phenotype, indicating the functionality of this sequence. Complementation studies of these mutant strains suggest that flgE is included in a single transcriptional unit that starts in flgB and ends in flgF. In agreement with this possibility, a specific transcript of approximately 3.5 kb was identified by Northern blot. This mRNA is large enough to represent the complete flgBCDEF operon. FlgE showed a relatively high proline content; in particular, a region of 12 amino acids near the N terminus, in which four prolines were identified. Cells expressing a mutant FlgE protein lacking this region showed abnormal swimming behavior, and their hooks were curved. These results sugges	2001	3	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Alleles; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; DNA Transposable Elements; Flagella; Gene Expression; Molecular Sequence Data; Movement; Mutation; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Ballado	T
11160087	10.1128/JB.183.5.1568-1576.2001	Control of hemA expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: effect of a transposon insertion in the hbdA gene.	The common precursor to all tetrapyrroles is 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), and in Rhodobacter sphaeroides its formation occurs via the Shemin pathway. ALA synthase activity is encoded by two differentially regulated genes in R. sphaeroides 2.4.1: hemA and hemT. In our investigations of hemA regulation, we applied transposon mutagenesis under aerobic conditions, followed by a selection that identified transposon insertion mutants in which hemA expression is elevated. One of these mutants has been characterized previously (J. Zeilstra-Ryalls and S. Kaplan, J. Bacteriol. 178:985-993, 1996), and here we describe our analysis of a second mutant strain. The transposon inserted into the coding sequences of hbdA, coding for S-(+)-beta-hydroxybutyryl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase and catalyzing an NAD-dependent reaction. We provide evidence that the hbdA gene product participates in polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) metabolism and, based on our findings, we discuss possibilities as to how defective PHB metab	2001	3	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	3-Hydroxyacyl CoA Dehydrogenases; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Amino Acid Sequence; DNA Transposable Elements; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Hydroxybutyrates; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Fales	L
11148037	10.1021/bi001286n	Effect of metal binding on electrogenic proton transfer associated with reduction of the secondary electron acceptor (QB) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores.	The influence of metal ion (Cd(2+), Zn(2+), Ni(2+)) binding on the electrogenic phases of proton transfer connected with reduction of quinone Q(B) in chromatophores from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied by time-resolved electric potential changes. In the presence of metals, the electrogenic transients associated with proton transfer on first and second flash at pH 8 were found to be slower by factors of 3-6. This is essentially the same effect of metal binding that was observed on optical transients in isolated reaction centers (RC), where the metal ion was shown to inhibit proton transfer [Paddock, M. L., Graige, M. S., Feher, G., and Okamura, M. Y. (1999) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96, 6183-6188]. The effect of metal binding on the kinetics in chromatophores is, therefore, similarly attributed to inhibition of proton uptake, which becomes rate-limiting. A striking observation was an increase in the amplitude of the electrogenic proton-uptake phase after the first flash with bou	2001	2	15	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alanine; Bacterial Chromatophores; Binding Sites; Cadmium; Histidine; Metals, Heavy; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nickel; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Keller	S
16290600	10.1006/jcis.2002.8297	Adsorption of heavy metal ions to floc-type biosorbents.	Adsorption of cadmium and lead ions to floc-type biosorbents was reported in this work. Two types of biosorbents containing a marine microalga, Heterosigma akashiwo (Hada) Hada, or a purple non-sulfur bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, were prepared. The micro-organisms inactivated by steam sterilization were immobilized in casein floc and cross-linked with glutaraldehyde. In the present immobilizing method, we obtained the biosorbents comprising as much as 67% of micro-organism on a dry-weight basis. Simple metal-binding models were applied to explain the adsorption mechanism of bivalent metal ions to the biosorbents. The results showed that casein acted as both the immobilizing material and the adsorbent material. The adsorption of bivalent metal ions to the biosorbents was due to bidentate binding to the acidic sites on casein and monodentate binding to the acidic sites on micro-organisms. The metal-binding constants and the binding capacities of micro-organisms were scarcely influ	2007	5	31	J Colloid Interface Sci	Journal of colloid and interface science	Adsorption; Biopolymers; Eukaryota; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ions; Metals, Heavy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Seki	Hideshi
16245109	10.1023/A:1020437317471	Photosynthesis genes and their expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: a tribute to my students and associates.	This minireview traces the photosynthesis genes, their structure, function and expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, as applied to our understanding of the inducible photosynthetic intracytoplasmic membrane system or ICM. This focus has represented the research interests of this laboratory from the late 1960s to the present. This opportunity has been used to highlight the contributions of students and postdoctorals to this research effort. The work described here took place in a much greater and much broader context than what can be conveyed here. The 'timeline' begins with a clear acknowledgment of the work of June Lascelles and William Sistrom, whose foresight intuitively recognized the necessity of a 'genetic' approach to the study of photosynthesis in R. sphaeroides. The 'timeline' concludes with the completed genome sequence of R. sphaeroides 2.4.1. However, it is hoped the reader will recognize this event as not just a new beginning, but also as another hallmark describing	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Kaplan	Samuel
16233179	10.1263/jbb.93.145	Enhancement of hydrogen production by a photosynthetic bacterium mutant with reduced pigment.	A novel mutant MTP4 was created from the wild-type strain Rhodobacter sphaeroides RV by UV irradiation for the enhancement of hydrogen production. The amount of light absorbed by MTP4 was lower than that by the wild-type strain at any wavelengths ranging from 350 to 1000 nm. This nature enables the illumination of cells in the deeper parts of a reactor. The contents of bacteriochlorophylls and carotenoids of the chromatophores prepared from MTP4 under the conditions for hydrogen production were reduced to 41 and 49% of those from the wild-type strain RV, respectively. Analysis of the light-harvesting (LH) complexes by SDS-PAGE showed that the amounts of LH1s and reaction centers (RCs) in MTP4 were retained, whereas that of LH2s was much less than that in RV. Although MTP4 had less pigments, its growth rate was equivalent to that of RV over a wide range of light intensities. MTP4 produces hydrogen with a stable manner. Using a plate-type reactor, it produced 50% more hydrogen than RV. A	2005	11	3	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	NA	Kondo	Toshihiko
16228552	10.1023/A:1020947308227	Analysis of the upstream sequences of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 hemA gene: in vivo evidence for the presence of two promoters that are both regulated by fnrL.	The presumed DNA target for the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 FnrL regulatory protein is the FNR consensus sequence, TTGAT-N(4)-ATCAA, based on (1) similarities between the helix-turn-helix motifs of FnrL and the Escherichia coli homologue, Fnr, and (2) the established FnrL dependence for anaerobic induction of six gene clusters all having upstream FNR consensus-like sequences. We are interested in understanding the regulation of one among these; namely, the hemA gene, which codes for one of two isozymes of 5-aminolevulinate (ALA) synthase in this organism. Here, we present in vivo evidence that the hemA gene is transcribed from two promoters. Both are under oxygen control, and disabling the fnrL gene abolishes induction of each promoter in response to lowering oxygen tension. Based on the 5' position of the FNR consensus sequence relative to the downstream promoter, we had hypothesized that activation of that promoter is mediated by binding of FnrL to the FNR consensus sequence. Consi	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Fales	Linda
16228547	10.1023/A:1020882402389	The structure of the heterodimer reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 2.55 .. resolution.	Crystals have been obtained of reaction centers of the heterodimer mutant that has significantly different properties than wild type due to the primary donor being formed from both a bacteriochlorophyll and bacteriopheophytin rather than two bacteriochlorophylls as found for wild type. The crystals belong to the trigonal space group P3(1)21 and the structure has been refined to a resolution limit of 2.55 A with an R factor of 19.0%. The electron density maps confirm that a primary donor does indeed contain a bacteriopheophytin due to the His to Leu substitution at M202 that coordinates the corresponding bacteriochlorophyll in wild-type. Other structural changes compared to wild type are relatively minor with the relative orientation and positioning of the two tetrapyrroles forming the primary donor being unchanged within the error. Compared to wild type, the only significant alterations are small shifts of residues M196 to M206, a rotation of the side chain of Ile M206, and the loss of	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Camara-Artigas	A
16228542	10.1023/A:1020811911956	Theoretical studies on the mechanism of primary electron transfer in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The mechanism of the primary electron transfer (ET) process in the photosynthetic reaction center (PRC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied with quantum chemistry method of ab initio density functional theory (DFT) (B3LYP/6-31G) based on the optimized X-ray crystallographic structure. The calculation was carried out on different structural levels. The electronic structure of pigment molecules was first studied, and then the influence of the neighboring protein was taken into account at three approximation levels: (a) the surrounding proteins were treated as a homogeneous medium with a uniform dielectric constant (SCRF); (b) both the influence of axial coordination of His to the special pair P and ABChl as, and the hydrogen bonds between related residues and P and also BPhas were included; and (c) the influence of the electronic structure of the protein subunit chains as a whole was studied. The results suggest that: (1) according to the composition of the HOMO and LUMO of P, th	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Xu	Hong
16228134	10.1023/A:1015533126685	B-branch electron transfer in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides assessed with site-directed mutagenesis.	Mutants of Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides are described which were designed to study electron transfer along the so-called B-branch of reaction center (RC) cofactors. Combining the mutation L(M214)H, which results in the incorporation of a bacteriochlorophyll, beta, for H(A) [Kirmaier et al. (1991) Science 251: 922-927] with two mutations, G(M203)D and Y(M210)W, near B(A), we have created a double and a triple mutant with long lifetimes of the excited state P(*) of the primary donor P, viz. 80 and 160 ps at room temperature, respectively. The yield of P(+)Q(A) (-) formation in these mutants is reduced to 50 and 30%, respectively, of that in wildtype RCs. For both mutants, the quantum yield of P(+)H(B) (-) formation was less than 10%, in contrast to the 15% B-branch electron transfer demonstrated in RCs of a similar mutant of Rba. capsulatus with a P(*) lifetime of 15 ps [Heller et al. (1995) Science 269: 940-945]. We conclude that the lifetime of P(*) is not a governing factor in switc	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	de Boer	Arjo L
12632210	10.1007/s00249-002-0265-8	Excitation relaxation in the chemically modified photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601.	The ultrafast excitation relaxation in the sodium borohydride-treated reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601 was investigated with selective excitation. From the femtosecond pump-probe measurement at 790 nm, the excitation relaxation demonstrates a biexponential decay with time constants of about 200 fs and 1.4 ps. By comparison with the result from sodium ascorbate-pretreated modified RS601, it could be concluded that the dynamical trace at 790 nm mainly originates from the contribution of accessory bacteriochlorophyll in the active side, and the electrochromic shift arising from the induced positive charge on the special pair primarily affects the absorption band in the red region of the accessory bacteriochlorophyll in RS601. With direct excitation of the special pair, the charge separation and subsequent electron transfer were observed in borohydride-modified RS601. The 2.8 ps component was ascribed to the charge separation and electron transfer from P* to H(A). From the dy	2003	12	16	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Adaptation, Physiological; Borohydrides; Cells, Cultured; Energy Transfer; Lasers; Photic Stimulation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Reaction Time; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Guo	Lijun
12508853	10.1099/00207713-52-6-1953	Farnesyl diphosphate synthase gene of three phototrophic bacteria and its use as a phylogenetic marker.	Farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) synthase is essential not only for phototrophic bacteria in carotenoid biosynthesis, but also for non-phototrophic bacteria in the biosynthesis of physiologically important compounds. The gene encoding FPP synthase was assessed as a molecular marker to investigate the intermingled relationship between the phototropic and non-phototropic bacteria in the alpha-Proteobacteria based on 16S rRNA analysis. The FPP synthase amino acid sequences from three phototropic bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides ATCC 11167(T), Rhodobacter capsulatus ATCC 11166(T) and Rhodovulum sulfidophilum W4(T), were determined and used in conjunction with sequences of other representative members of the alpha-, gamma- and epsilon-Proteobacteria and the low-G+C Gram-positive bacteria for phylogenetic analyses by the neighbour-joining and maximum-likelihood methods. The overall topology of the FPP synthase gene tree is consistent with that of the 16S rRNA tree, producing a distinct cluster of	2003	3	12	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Alphaproteobacteria; Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Markers; Geranyltranstransferase; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Species Specificity	Cantera	Jose Jason L
12500559		[Slow photoinduced changes in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 by holographic interferometry].	Using the on-line holographic interferometry, changes in the refraction index of illuminated solutions containing the Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 reaction centers isolated from membranes by detergents of ionic and nonionic nature were registered. Factors affecting the refraction index of these solutions were analyzed. It was shown that the photoinduced changes in this parameter are due to structural changes in the molecular complex of reaction centers. The results of measurements of the kinetics of absorption spectra at lambda = 865 nm for two detergent types are presented, which coincide qualitatively with the results of holographic measurements. The change in the volume of the molecular complex of reaction centers was estimated to be 0.1 divided by 1%.	2003	1	17	Biofizika	Biofizika	Holography; Interferometry; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions	Barabash	Iu M
12496261	10.1074/jbc.M209343200	The two photocycles of photoactive yellow protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The absorption spectrum of the photoactive yellow protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R-PYP) shows two maxima, absorbing at 360 nm (R-PYP(360)) and 446 nm (R-PYP(446)), respectively. Both forms are photoactive and part of a temperature- and pH-dependent equilibrium (Haker, A., Hendriks, J., Gensch, T., Hellingwerf, K. J., and Crielaard, W. (2000) FEBS Lett. 486, 52-56). At 20 degrees C, for PYP characteristic, the 446-nm absorbance band displays a photocycle, in which the depletion of the 446-nm ground state absorption occurs in at least three phases, with time constants of &lt;30 ns, 0.5 micros, and 17 micros. Intermediates with both blue- and red-shifted absorption maxima are transiently formed, before a blue-shifted intermediate (pB(360), lambda(max) = 360 nm) is established. The photocycle is completed with a monophasic recovery of the ground state with a time constant of 2.5 ms. At 7 degrees C these photocycle transitions are slowed down 2- to 3-fold. Upon excitation of R-PYP(36	2003	4	23	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Models, Molecular; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Haker	Andrea
12495430	10.1023/a:1021317925358	Effect of isotope substitution and controlled dehydration on the photoinduced electron transport reactions of quinone acceptors and multiheme cytochrome C in bacterial photosynthetic reaction center.	Isotope substitution of H2O by 2H2O causes an increase in the rate of dark recombination between photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll (P+) and reduced primary quinone acceptor in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers (RC) at room temperature. The isotopic effect declines upon decreasing the temperature. Dehydration of RC complexes of Ectothiorhodospira shaposhnikovii chromatophores containing multiheme cytochrome c causes a decrease in the efficiency of transfer of a photomobilized electron between the primary and secondary quinone acceptors and from cytochrome to P+. In the case of H2O medium these effects are observed at a lower hydration than in 2H2O-containing medium. In the E. shaposhnikovii chromatophores subjected to dehydration in H2O, the rate of electron transfer from the nearest high-potential cytochrome heme to P+ is virtually independent of hydration within the P/P0 range from 0.1 to 0.5. In samples hydrated in 2H2O this rate is approximately 1.5 times lower than in H2O. H	2003	7	31	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacteriochlorophylls; Cytochrome c Group; Darkness; Dehydration; Deuterium; Ectothiorhodospira shaposhnikovii; Electron Transport; Heme; Isotopes; Kinetics; Lasers; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Water	Chamorovsky	S K
12495417	10.1023/a:1021341103068	On the involvement of the water-polaron mechanism in energy trapping by reaction centers of purple bacteria.	A locus for binding a mobile water molecule was searched for in the immediate vicinity of the special pair in the reaction center. Using the PROTEUS PC-program (a part of the GRASP package) atomic structures of the reaction centers were analyzed in purple bacteria Rhodopseudomonas viridis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In both structures the loci for binding mobile water molecules were found at the distance of about 4.5 A from the middle of the special pair in the reaction center. The reorientation of a hydrogen atom of this water molecule in the electric field of the excited special pair required energy of no less than 40 MeV that corresponded to predictions of the water-polarization model of trapping of electron excitation which was developed by M. V. Fok and one of the authors of this article.	2003	7	31	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Electric Conductivity; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Water	Borisov	A Yu
12484763	10.1021/bi0264566	Influence of the protein environment on the properties of a tyrosyl radical in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The influence of the local environment on the formation of a tyrosyl radical was investigated in modified photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The reaction centers contain a tyrosine residue placed approximately 10 A from a highly oxidizing bacteriochlorophyll dimer. Measurements by both optical and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed spectral features that are assigned as arising primarily from an oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer at low pH values and from a tyrosyl radical at high pH values, with a well-defined transition that occurred with a pK(a) of 6.9. A model based on the wild-type structure indicated that the Tyr at M164 is likely to form a hydrogen bond with His M193 and to interact weakly with Glu M173. Substitution of Tyr or Glu for His at M193 increased the pK(a) for the transition from 6.9 to 8.9, while substitution of Gln for His M193 resulted in a higher pK(a) value. Substitution of Glu M173 with Gln resulted in loss of the par	2003	2	6	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arginine; Dimerization; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Glutamic Acid; Glutamine; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Tyrosine	Narv..ez	A J
12459469	10.1016/s0014-5793(02)03635-9	The DMPC lipid phase transition influences differently the first and the second electron transfer reactions in bacterial reaction centers.	Photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were incorporated in dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) liposomes. The first and second electron transfer rates (k(AB)(1) and k(AB)(2), respectively) between the first and the second quinone electron acceptors have been measured as a function of temperature, across the phase transition of DMPC (23 degrees C). The Eyring plots of k(AB)(1) display straight lines. In contrast, the Eyring plots for k(AB)(2) in proteoliposomes show a break at about 23.5 degrees C. This physical discrimination between the two electron transfer reactions demonstrates that the stiffness of the lipid environment of the RCs and/or the protein-protein interactions influence the parameters governing k(AB)(2), but not the gating process limiting k(AB)(1).	2003	1	13	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Cryoelectron Microscopy; Dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Membrane Fluidity; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteolipids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Taly	Antoine
12459184	10.1016/s0006-291x(02)02702-x	Characterization of a novel enoyl-acyl carrier protein reductase of diazaborine-resistant Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides contains two enoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) reductases, FabI(1) and FabI(2). However, FabI(1) displays most of the cellular enzyme activity. The spontaneous diazaborine-resistant mutation was mapped as substitution of glutamine for proline 155 (P155Q) of FabI(1). The mutation of FabI(1)[P155Q] increased the specificity constants (k(cat)/K(m)) for crotonyl-ACP and NADH by more than 2-fold, while the site-directed mutation G95S (FabI(1)[G95S]), corresponding to the well-known G93 mutation of Escherichia coli FabI, rather decreased the values. Inhibition kinetics of the enzymes revealed that triclosan binds to the enzyme in the presence of NAD(+), while the diazaborine appears to interact with NADH and NAD(+) in the enzyme active site. The apparent inhibition constant K(i)(') of triclosan for FabI(1)[P155Q] and FabI(1)[G95S] at saturating NAD(+) were approximately 80- and 3-fold higher than that for the wild-type enzyme, respectively, implying that the inhibition	2003	1	24	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Amino Acid Sequence; Anti-Infective Agents, Local; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Boron Compounds; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Enoyl-(Acyl-Carrier-Protein) Reductase (NADH); Isoenzymes; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; NAD; Oxidoreductases; Point Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Triclosan	Lee	Il-Han
12454467	10.1107/s0907444902016736	The influence of detergents on the solubility of membrane proteins.	The relationship between the effect of detergents and amphiphiles on protein solubility and their use in crystallization solutions was examined for the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Measurement by a centrifugation assay of the solubility of the reaction center as a function of ionic strength revealed dramatic differences in the intrinsic solubility at zero ionic strength in the presence of various detergents and amphiphiles. High protein-solubility values were found for beta-octyl glucoside and for lauryldimethylamine-N-oxide with heptanetriol. The solubility differences are interpreted in terms of fundamental properties such as the polarity of the detergent molecules. Conditions that resulted in high protein solubility correspond to conditions that have been shown to be successful for crystallization of the reaction center. These results suggest that crystallization is favored for detergents and amphiphiles that optimize the solubility of integral membrane proteins.	2003	6	17	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Detergents; Membrane Proteins; Osmolar Concentration; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility	Rosenow	M A
12453209	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.03252.x	TlpC, a novel chemotaxis protein in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, localizes to a discrete region in the cytoplasm.	TlpC is encoded in the second chemotaxis operon of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This protein shows some homology to membrane-spanning chemoreceptors of many bacterial species but, unlike these, is essential for R. sphaeroides chemotaxis to all compounds tested. Genomic replacement of tlpC with a C-terminal gfp fusion demonstrated that TlpC localized to a discrete cluster within the cytoplasm. Immunogold electron microscopy also showed that TlpC localized to a cytoplasmic electron-dense region. Correct TlpC-GFP localization depended on the downstream signalling proteins, CheW3, CheW4 and CheA2, and was tightly linked to cell division. Newly divided cells contained a single cluster but, as the cell cycle progressed, a second cluster appeared close to the initial cluster. As elongation continued, these clusters moved apart so that, on septation, each daughter cell contained a single TlpC cluster. The data presented suggest that TlpC is either a cytoplasmic chemoreceptor responding to or integ	2003	3	13	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; Gene Deletion; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Immunohistochemistry; Luminescent Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wadhams	G H
12450404	10.1021/bi026198c	Modulation of the midpoint potential of the [2Fe-2S] Rieske iron sulfur center by Qo occupants in the bc1 complex.	Following addition of myxothiazol to antimycin-treated chromatophores from Rhodobacter sphaeroides poised at an ambient redox potential (E(h)) of approximately 300 mV, the amplitude of the flash-induced cytochrome c(1) oxidation in the ms range increased, indicating a decrease in the availability of electrons from the immediate donor to c(1), the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP). Because the effect was seen only over the limited E(h) range, we conclude that it is due to a decrease in the apparent midpoint redox potential (E(m)) of the ISP by about 40 mV on addition of myxothiazol. This is in line with the change in E(m) previously seen in direct redox titrations. Our results show that the reduced ISP binds with quinone at the Q(o) site with a higher affinity than does the oxidized ISP. The displacement of ubiquinone by myxothiazol leads to elimination of this preferential binding of the ISP reduced form and results in a shift in the midpoint potential of ISP to a more negative value. A	2003	1	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c1; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Methacrylates; Models, Chemical; Oxidation-Reduction; Photolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Thiazoles; Ubiquinone	Shinkarev	Vladimir P
12437359	10.1021/bi020250n	Nuclear wave packet motion between P* and P(+)B(A)(-) potential surfaces with a subsequent electron transfer to H(A) in bacterial reaction centers at 90 K. Electron transfer pathway.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 reaction centers (RCs) the nuclear wave packet induced by 25 fs excitation at 90 K moves on the primary electron donor P* potential energy hypersurface with initial frequency at approximately 130 cm(-1) (monitored by stimulated emission measurement). At the long-wavelength side of P* stimulated emission at 935 nm the wave packet is transferred to the surface with P(+)B(A)(-) character at 120, 380, 1.2 fs, etc. delays (monitored by measurement of the primary electron acceptor B(A)(-) band at 1020 nm). However, only beginning from 380 fs delay and later the relative stabilization of the state P(+)B(A)(-) is observed. This is accompanied by the electron transfer to bacteriopheophytin H(A) (monitored by H(A) band measurement at 760 nm). The most active mode of 32 cm(-1) in the electron transfer and its overtones up to the seventh were found in the Fourier transform spectrum of the oscillatory part of the kinetics of the P* stimulated emission and of the P(+)	2003	1	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Darkness; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Yakovlev	Andrei G
12426361	10.1128/JB.184.23.6721-6724.2002	Up-regulated expression of the cbb(I) and cbb(II) operons during photoheterotrophic growth of a ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase deletion mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In a Rhodobacter sphaeroides ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase deletion strain that requires an exogenous electron donor for photoheterotrophic growth, transcription of the genes of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle was increased. This finding pointed to a potential physiological effector that enhances the capability of the positive transcriptional activator CbbR to mediate cbb transcription. This effector is most likely ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate or a metabolite derived from this CBB pathway intermediate.	2003	1	7	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutation; Operon; Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Up-Regulation	Smith	Stephanie A
12426354	10.1128/JB.184.23.6654-6664.2002	Differential expression of the CO2 fixation operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by the Prr/Reg two-component system during chemoautotrophic growth.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the two cbb operons encoding duplicated Calvin-Benson Bassham (CBB) CO2 fixation reductive pentose phosphate cycle structural genes are differentially controlled. In attempts to define the molecular basis for the differential regulation, the effects of mutations in genes encoding a subunit of Cbb3 cytochrome oxidase, ccoP, and a global response regulator, prrA (regA), were characterized with respect to CO2 fixation (cbb) gene expression by using translational lac fusions to the R. sphaeroides cbb(I) and cbb(II) promoters. Inactivation of the ccoP gene resulted in derepression of both promoters during chemoheterotophic growth, where cbb expression is normally repressed; expression was also enhanced over normal levels during phototrophic growth. The prrA mutation effected reduced expression of cbb(I) and cbb(II) promoters during chemoheterotrophic growth, whereas intermediate levels of expression were observed in a double ccoP prrA mutant. PrrA and ccoP1 prrA 	2003	1	7	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Carbon Dioxide; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hydrogen; Mutation; Operon; Oxygen; Pentose Phosphate Pathway; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Signal Transduction; Trans-Activators	Gibson	Janet L
12423751	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2002.tb11413.x	Inhibition of acetate and propionate assimilation by itaconate via propionyl-CoA carboxylase in isocitrate lyase-negative purple bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum.	Itaconate is known as a potent inhibitor of isocitrate lyase. Unexpectedly, itaconate was a strong inhibitor of acetate and propionate assimilation in isocitrate lyase-negative purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum. It was shown that in cell extracts of R. rubrum itaconate inhibited propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC) activity. The participation of PCC in propionate assimilation in R. rubrum is well-documented, but the inhibition of acetate assimilation suggests that PCC is also involved in acetate metabolism. PCC is one of the enzymes of the citramalate cycle, the anaplerotic pathway proposed for R. rubrum as a substitute for the glyoxylate cycle. These results provide further support for the hypothesis of the occurrence of the citramalate cycle in R. rubrum. PCC from other isocitrate lyase-negative phototrophs, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Phaeospirillum fulvum, was not inhibited by itaconate.	2003	5	20	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Acetates; Carboxy-Lyases; Malates; Methylmalonyl-CoA Decarboxylase; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Succinates	Berg	Ivan A
12421557	10.1016/s0022-2836(02)01031-8	Phosphotransfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chemotaxis.	The two-component sensing system controlling bacterial chemotaxis is one of the best studied in biology. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a complex chemosensory pathway comprising two histidine protein kinases (CheAs) and eight downstream response regulators (six CheYs and two CheBs) rather than the single copies of each as in Escherichia coli. We used in vitro analysis of phosphotransfer to start to determine why R.sphaeroides has these multiple homologues. CheA(1) and CheA(2) contain all the key motifs identified in the histidine protein kinase family, except for conservative substitutions (F-L and F-I) within the F box of CheA(2), and both are capable of ATP-dependent autophosphorylation. While the K(m) values for ATP of CheA(1) and CheA(2) were similar to that of E.coli, the k(cat) value was three times lower, but similar to that measured for the related Sinorhizobium meliloti CheA. However, the two CheAs differed both in their ability to phosphorylate the various response regulators an	2002	12	19	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Histidine Kinase; Kinetics; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Phosphorylation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Porter	Steven L
12421313	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.03218.x	The third chemotaxis locus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is essential for chemotaxis.	The purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has three loci encoding multiple homologues of the bacterial chemosensory proteins: 13 putative chemoreceptors, four CheW, four CheA, six CheY, two CheB and three CheR. Previously, studies have shown that, although deletion of cheOp1 led to only minor changes in behaviour, deletion of cheOp2 led to a loss of taxis. The third locus encodes two CheA, one CheR, one CheB, one CheW, one CheY, a putative cytoplasmic chemoreceptor (TlpT) and a protein showing homology to the chromosomal partitioning factor Soj (designated Slp). Here, we show that every protein encoded by this locus is essential for normal chemotaxis. Phototaxis is also dependent upon all the components of this locus, except CheB2 and Slp. The two putative CheA proteins encoded in this locus are unusual. CheA3 has only the P1 domain and the P5 regulatory domain linked by a large internal domain, whereas CheA4 lacks the P1 and P2 domains required for phosphorylation an	2003	2	4	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Methyltransferases; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Porter	Steven L
12416987	10.1021/bi026582+	A mutation in subunit I of cytochrome oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides results in an increase in steady-state activity but completely eliminates proton pumping.	The heme-copper oxidases convert the free energy liberated in the reduction of O(2) to water into a transmembrane proton electrochemical potential (protonmotive force). One of the essential structural elements of the enzyme is the D-channel, which is thought to be the input pathway, both for protons which go to form H(2)O ("chemical protons") and for protons that get translocated across the lipid membrane ("pumped protons"). The D-channel contains a chain of water molecules extending about 25 A from an aspartic acid (D132 in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides oxidase) near the cytoplasmic ("inside") enzyme surface to a glutamic acid (E286) in the protein interior. Mutations in which either of these acidic residues is replaced by their corresponding amides (D132N or E286Q) result in severe inhibition of enzyme activity. In the current work, an asparagine located in the D-channel has been replaced by the corresponding acid (N139 to D; N98 in bovine enzyme) with dramatic consequences. The N139D 	2002	12	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Aspartic Acid; Cold Temperature; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Activation; Heme; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photolysis; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Pawate	Ashtamurthy S
12401220	10.1016/s0167-4781(02)00504-3	Characterization of the flgG operon of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WS8 and its role in flagellum biosynthesis.	In this work, we show evidence regarding the functionality of a large cluster of flagellar genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The genes of this cluster, flgGHIJKL and orf-1, are mainly involved in the formation of the basal body, and flgK and flgL encode the hook-associated proteins HAP1 and HAP3. In general, these genes showed a good similarity as compared with those reported for Salmonella enterica. However, flgJ and flgK showed particular features that make them unique among the flagellar sequences already reported. flgJ is only a third of the size reported for flgJ from Salmonella; whereas flgK is about three times larger than any other flgK sequence previously known. Our results indicate that both genes are functional, and their products are essential for flagellar assembly. In contrast, the interruption of orf-1, did not affect motility suggesting that this sequence, if functional, is not indispensable for flagellar assembly. Finally, we present genetic evidence suggesting that th	2002	12	13	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Flagella; Flagellin; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Operon; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gonz..lez-Pedrajo	Bertha
12399927	10.1007/s00239-002-2348-7	Evolutionary implications of phylogenetic analyses of the gene transfer agent (GTA) of Rhodobacter capsulatus.	The gene transfer agent (GTA) of the a-proteobacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus is a cell-controlled genetic exchange vector. Genes that encode the GTA structure are clustered in a 15-kb region of the R. capsulatus chromosome, and some of these genes show sequence similarity to known bacteriophage head and tail genes. However, the production of GTA is controlled at the level of transcription by a cellular two-component signal transduction system. This paper describes homologues of both the GTA structural gene cluster and the GTA regulatory genes in the a-proteobacteria Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Caulobacter crescentus, Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Brucella melitensis. These sequences were used in a phylogenetic tree approach to examine the evolutionary relationships of selected GTA proteins to these homologues and (pro)phage proteins, which was compared to a 16S rRNA tree. The data indicate that a GTA-like element was present in a single progenitor of the extan	2003	3	17	J Mol Evol	Journal of molecular evolution	Alphaproteobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Phylogeny; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Species Specificity	Lang	Andrew S
12390017	10.1021/bi026565k	Vibrational spectroscopy favors a unique QB binding site at the proximal position in wild-type reaction centers and in the Pro-L209 --&gt; Tyr mutant from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the various X-ray structures of native reaction centers (RCs) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, two distinct main binding sites (distal and proximal) for the secondary quinone Q(B) have been described in the literature. The movement of Q(B) from its distal to proximal position has been proposed to account for the conformational gate limiting the rate of the first electron transfer from the primary quinone Q(A-) to Q(B). Recently, Q(B) was found to bind in the proximal binding site in the dark-adapted crystals of a mutant RC where Pro-L209 was changed to Tyr [Kuglstatter, A., Ermler, U., Michel, H., Baciou, L., and Fritzsch, G. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 4253-4260]. To test the structural and functional implications of the distal and proximal sites, a comparison of the FTIR vibrational properties of Q(B) in native RCs and in the Pro-L209 --&gt; Tyr mutant was performed. Light-induced FTIR absorption changes associated with the reduction of Q(B) in Pro-L209 --&gt	2002	12	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Carbon Isotopes; Crystallography, X-Ray; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proline; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Tyrosine; Ubiquinone	Breton	Jacques
12383730	10.1016/s0147-619x(02)00100-2	Comparative characterization of repABC-type replicons of Paracoccus pantotrophus composite plasmids.	The repABC replicons have an unusual structure, since they carry genes coding for partitioning (repA, repB) and replication (repC) proteins, which are organized in an operon. So far, the presence of these compact bi-functional modules has been reported only in the megaplasmids of the Rhizobiaceae and within the plasmid pTAV1 (107kb) of Paracoccus versutus. We studied the distribution of repABC-type replicons within bacteria belonging to the genus Paracoccus. We found that repABC replicons occur only in the group of pTAV1-like plasmids: pKLW1, pHG16-a, pWKS2, and pPAN1, harbored by different strains of Paracoccus pantotrophus. A partial sequencing approach followed by phylogenetic analysis revealed that these replicons constitute a distinct evolutionary branch of repABC replicons. Incompatibility studies showed that they represent two incompatibility groups designated IncABC1 (pTAV1, pKLW1, and pHG16-a) and IncABC2 (pPAN1). Sequence comparison using available databases allowed the ident	2003	1	3	Plasmid	Plasmid	Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Order; Molecular Sequence Data; Paracoccus; Phylogeny; Plasmids; Replicon; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid; Species Specificity	Bartosik	Dariusz
12382056	10.1007/s00253-002-1097-2	Reductive effect of H(2) uptake and poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate formation on nitrogenase-mediated H(2) accumulation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides according to light intensity.	Nitrogenase-mediated H(2) accumulation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides under photoheterotrophic conditions is reduced directly by the hydrogenase activity catalyzing H(2) uptake and indirectly by energy-demanding metabolic processes such as poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) formation. H(2) accumulation of R. sphaeroides was examined during cell growth under illumination of 15, 7, and 3 W/m(2). Mutations in either hupSL (H(2)-uptake hydrogenase) or phbC (PHB synthase) had no effect on nitrogenase activity. The nitrogenase activity of R. sphaeroides grown at 15 W/m(2), however, was 70% higher than that of cells grown at 3 W/m(2), while the H(2)-uptake hydrogenase activity was approximately 3-fold higher in the same comparison. Accordingly, H(2) uptake by hydrogenase, monitored by measuring the difference in H(2) accumulation between a hupSL-deletion mutant and the corresponding parental strain, appeared to reach a maximum level as illumination was increased to 15 W/m(2). On the other hand, the 	2003	4	17	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Blotting, Southern; DNA, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Hydrogen; Hydroxybutyrates; Light; Nitrogenase; Polyesters; Restriction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	I-H
12368079	10.1016/s0968-0004(02)02181-3	BLUF: a novel FAD-binding domain involved in sensory transduction in microorganisms.	A novel FAD-binding domain, BLUF, exemplified by the N-terminus of the AppA protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, is present in various proteins, primarily from Bacteria. The BLUF domain is involved in sensing blue-light (and possibly redox) using FAD and is similar to the flavin-binding PAS domains and cryptochromes. The predicted secondary structure reveals that the BLUF domain is a novel FAD-binding fold.	2002	12	2	Trends Biochem Sci	Trends in biochemical sciences	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Gomelsky	Mark
12366832	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.03158.x	The four different sigma(54) factors of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are not functionally interchangeable.	The sigma(54) factor is highly conserved in a large number of bacterial species. From the complete genome sequence of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, it was possible to identify four different sequences encoding potentially functional sigma(54) factors. In this work, we provide evidence that one of these copies (rpoN2) is specifically required to express the flagellar genes in this bacterium. A mutant strain carrying a lesion in the rpoN2 gene was unable to swim even though the RpoN1 and RpoN3 proteins were present in the cytoplasm. The possibility that the different copies of the sigma(54) factor might be specific for the transcription of a particular subset of sigma(54) promoters was reinforced by the fact that a mutant strain carrying a lesion in rpoN1 showed a severe growth defect in nitrogen-free culture medium, even though the rpoN2 and rpoN4 genes were actively transcribed from a plasmid or from the chromosome. Different mechanisms that might be responsible for this specificity are dis	2002	12	3	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Culture Media; DNA-Binding Proteins; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Nitrogen; Promoter Regions, Genetic; RNA Polymerase Sigma 54; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sigma Factor; Transcription, Genetic	Poggio	Sebastian
12351882	10.1107/s0907444902014178	Charge separation induces conformational changes in the photosynthetic reaction centre of purple bacteria.	X-ray structures of the wild-type reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been determined to a resolution of 1.87 A in the neutral (dark) state and to 2.06 A in the charge-separated (light-excited) state. Whereas the overall protein structures of both states are rather similar, the domain around the secondary quinone shows significant shifts. The quinone molecule itself is observed at two different positions. In the neutral state, 55% of the quinone is located distally and 45% proximally to the cytoplasmic side. After excitation by light, however, at least 90% of the quinone is found at the proximal position. Results presented by Stowell et al. (1997) are confirmed, but the quality of crystallographic data has been improved. We compare the data with the structure of the mutant RC L 209 PY that keeps the Q(B) molecule in the proximal position even in the charge-neutral state.	2003	3	17	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Fritzsch	G..nter
12270816	10.1128/JB.184.20.5590-5598.2002	Tactic responses to oxygen in the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides WS8N.	The temporal and spatial behavior of a number of mutants of the photosynthetic, facultative anaerobe Rhodobacter sphaeroides to both step changes and to gradients of oxygen was analyzed. Wild-type cells, grown under a range of conditions, showed microaerophilic behavior, accumulating in a 1.3-mm band about 1.3 mm from the meniscus of capillaries. Evidence suggests this is the result of two signaling pathways. The strength of any response depended on the growth and incubation conditions. Deletion of either the complete chemosensory operons 1 and 2 plus the response regulator genes cheY(4) and cheY(5) or cheA(2) alone led to the loss of all aerotactic responses, although the cells still swam normally. The Prr system of R. sphaeroides responds to electron flow through the alternative high-affinity cytochrome oxidase, cbb(3), controlling expression of a wide range of metabolic pathways. Mutants with deletions of either the complete Prr operon or the histidine kinase, PrrB, accumulated up t	2002	10	28	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Culture Media; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Oxygen; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Trans-Activators	Romagnoli	Simona
12230978	10.1016/s0092-8674(02)00876-0	AppA is a blue light photoreceptor that antirepresses photosynthesis gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic bacteria regulate photosystem synthesis in response to alterations in oxygen tension and light intensity. In this study we show that the PpsR repressor from Rhodobacter sphaeroides binds to DNA in a redox-dependent manner through the formation/breakage of an intramolecular disulfide bond. We also demonstrate that PpsR is antagonized by the flavin-containing antirepressor, AppA, that is capable of breaking the disulfide bond in oxidized PpsR as well as forming a stable AppA-PpsR(2) antirepressor-repressor complex. Blue light excitation of AppA induces a photocycle that is characterized by a long-lived red-shifted absorbance of the flavin. Light-excited AppA was found to be incapable of forming the AppA-PpsR(2) antirepressor complex. These results establish AppA as a transcription factor that controls both redox and blue light repression of photosystem gene expression by mediating DNA binding activity of PpsR.	2003	2	6	Cell	Cell	Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Disulfides; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidation-Reduction; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Masuda	Shinji
12223089	10.1023/a:1019966620850	Effects of oxygen on the dark recombination between photoreduced secondary quinone and oxidized bacteriochlorophyll in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	The influence of duration of exposure to actinic light (from 1 sec to 10 min) and temperature (from 3 to 35 degrees C) on the temporary stabilization of the photomobilized electron in the secondary quinone acceptor (QB) locus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers (RC) was studied under aerobic or anaerobic conditions. Optical spectrophotometry and ESR methods were used. The stabilization time increased significantly upon increasing the exposure duration under aerobic conditions. The stabilization time decreased under anaerobic conditions, its dependence on light exposure duration being significantly less pronounced. Generation of superoxide radical in photoactivated aerobic samples was revealed by the ESR method. Possible interpretation of the effects is suggested in terms of interaction between the semiquinone QB with oxygen, the interaction efficiency being determined by the conformational transitions in the structure of RC triggered by actinic light on and off.	2003	8	25	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Algorithms; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Knox	P P
12220655	10.1016/s0014-5793(02)03203-9	Tuning of the redox potential of the primary electron donor in reaction centres of purple bacteria: effects of amino acid polarity and position.	Mutation of residues His L168 and Phe M197 in the reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has an unusually strong effect on the mid-point redox potential (E(m)) of the pair of bacteriochlorophylls that form the primary donor of electrons, tuning E(m) over a range of nearly 250 mV. This effect is correlated to the accompanying change in the permanent dipole of the L168 or M197 residue, suggesting it is mediated by changes in charge-dipole interactions. Comparisons with mutations made at a variety of other positions show that this correlation is particular to this residue pair, perhaps reflecting their proximity to the ring I regions of the dimer bacteriochlorophylls that form the overlap region between these molecules.	2002	11	8	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acids; Electrons; Histidine; Leucine; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Spiedel	Diane
12206892	10.1016/s0005-2728(02)00255-4	Supramolecular organisation of the photosynthetic chain in anoxygenic bacteria.	This minireview summarizes our present view of the supramolecular organization of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus. These two species present a close association between two reaction centers (RCs), one cytochrome (cyt) bc(1) and one cyt c. In R. sphaeroides, the RCs are only partially surrounded by LH1 complexes. This open ring of LH1 complexes is required for an efficient photoinduced cyclic electron transfer only under conditions where the quinone pool totally reduced. When the quinone pool is partially oxidized, a closed ring of LH1 complexes around the RCs does not impair the exchange of quinone molecules between the RC and the cyt bc(1) complex. To explain the efficient photochemistry of the various species which possess a RC surrounded by a closed ring of LH, it is proposed that their quinone pool is partially oxidized even under anaerobic condition.	2002	10	18	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Cytochrome c Group; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Verm..glio	Andr..
12218019	10.1128/JB.184.19.5330-5338.2002	Interdependent expression of the ccoNOQP-rdxBHIS loci in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The rdxBHIS gene cluster of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, located downstream of the ccoNOQP operon encoding the cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase, is required for the posttranscriptional modification of the cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase. The cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase is the main terminal oxidase under microaerobic conditions, as well as a component of the signal transduction pathway controlling photosynthesis gene expression. Because of the intimate functional and positional relationships of the ccoNOQP operon and the rdxBHIS gene cluster, we have examined the transcriptional activities of this DNA region in order to understand their expression and regulation. Northern blot analysis and reverse transcription-PCR, together with earlier complementation analysis, suggested that the ccoNOQP-rdxBHIS cluster is transcribed as ccoNOQP-, ccoNOQP-rdxBH-, rdxBH-, and rdxIS-specific transcripts. Multiple transcriptional start sites have been identified by primer extension analyses: five for ccoN, four	2002	10	16	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Lac Operon; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Photosynthesis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Roh	Jung Hyeob
12213930	10.1099/00221287-148-9-2847	Molecular characterization of functional modules of plasmid pWKS1 of Paracoccus pantotrophus DSM 11072.	The complete nucleotide sequence of the small, cryptic plasmid pWKS1 (2697 bp) of Paracoccus pantotrophus DSM 11072 was determined. The G+C content of the sequence of this plasmid was 62 mol%. Analysis revealed that over 80% of the plasmid genome was covered by two ORFs, ORF1 and ORF2, which were capable of encoding putative peptides of 44.1 and 37.8 kDa, respectively. Mutational analysis showed that ORF2 was crucial for plasmid replication. The translational product of ORF2 shared local homologies with replication proteins of several theta-replicating lactococcal plasmids, as well as with the Rep proteins of plasmids residing in Gram-negative hosts. An A+T-rich region, located upstream of the rep gene and containing three tandemly repeated 21 bp long iteron-like sequences, served as the origin of replication (oriV). ORF1 encoded a putative mobilization protein with similarities to mobilization proteins (Mob) from the broad-host-range plasmid pBBR1 and plasmids of Gram-positive bacteri	2003	5	16	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Paracoccus; Plasmids; Replication Origin; Replicon; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Bartosik	Dariusz
12196018	10.1021/bi026093+	The entry point of the K-proton-transfer pathway in cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase is a redox-driven proton pump. The enzyme has two proton input pathways, leading from the solution on the N-side to the binuclear center. One of these pathways, the K-pathway, is used for proton uptake upon reduction of the binuclear center. It is also important for local charge compensation during reaction of the fully reduced enzyme with O2. Two different locations have been proposed to constitute the entry point of the K-pathway: near S(I-299) or near E(II-101), respectively, in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides enzyme. The experiments discussed in this study are aimed at identifying the location of the entry point. The kinetics and extent of flash-induced proton release coupled to oxidation of heme a3 (tau congruent with 2 ms at pH 8.8 in the wild-type enzyme) in the absence of O2 were investigated in the ED(II-101), SD(I-299), and KM(I-362) mutant enzymes, i.e., at the two proposed entry points and in the middle of the pathway, respectively. This reaction was comple	2002	10	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Carbon Monoxide; Conserved Sequence; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Lysine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photolysis; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine	Br..nd..n	Magnus
12190021		[Growth of phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and formation of carotenoids on mineral water "Dzhermuk"].	A possibility to use thermal carbon sulphate-hydrocarbonate mineral waters "Dzhermuk" as the basis of nutrient medium for growing has been established. No distinct correlation was observed between biomass accumulation and carotenoids formation: maximum yields of the biomass is registered under microaetrophilic growth conditions, while that of carotenoids--under anaerobic conditions. Maximum synthesis of carotenoids is observed at illumination of 1000-1500 lx, more intensive illumination (3000 lx) results in the decrease of their synthesis. Spheroiden, which makes up about 40-45% of the total amount of carotenoids, is predominant. The biomass drying and storage period (2 yr.) affect inconsiderably the quantitative composition of pigments.	2002	9	23	Mikrobiol Z	Mikrobiolohichnyi zhurnal (Kiev, Ukraine : 1993)	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Carotenoids; Culture Media; Light; Mineral Waters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paronian	A Kh
12169604	10.1128/JB.184.17.4792-4799.2002	Pseudomonas aeruginosa synthesizes phosphatidylcholine by use of the phosphatidylcholine synthase pathway.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is a ubiquitous membrane lipid in eukaryotes but has been found in only a limited number of prokaryotes. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes synthesize PC by methylating phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) by use of a phospholipid methyltransferase (Pmt). Eukaryotes can synthesize PC by the activation of choline to form choline phosphate and then CDP-choline. The CDP-choline then condenses with diacylglycerol (DAG) to form PC. In contrast, prokaryotes condense choline directly with CDP-DAG by use of the enzyme PC synthase (Pcs). PmtA was the first enzyme identified in prokaryotes that catalyzes the synthesis of PC, and Pcs in Sinorhizobium meliloti was characterized. The completed release of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 genomic sequence contains on open reading frame predicted to encode a protein that is highly homologous (35% identity, 54% similarity) to PmtA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Moreover, the P. aeruginosa PAO1 genome encodes a protein with significant homo	2002	8	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Choline; Cytidine Diphosphate Diglycerides; Escherichia coli; Genes, Bacterial; Mass Spectrometry; Methyltransferases; Molecular Sequence Data; Phosphatidylcholines; Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Wilderman	Paula J
12167672	10.1073/pnas.162368399	Interactions between lipids and bacterial reaction centers determined by protein crystallography.	The structure of the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been solved by using x-ray diffraction at a 2.55-A resolution limit. Three lipid molecules that lie on the surface of the protein are resolved in the electron density maps. In addition to a cardiolipin that has previously been reported [McAuley, K. E., Fyfe, P. K., Ridge, J. P., Isaacs, N. W., Cogdell, R. J. &amp; Jones, M. R. (1999) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96, 14706-14711], two other major lipids of the cell membrane are found, a phosphatidylcholine and a glucosylgalactosyl diacylglycerol. The presence of these three lipids has been confirmed by laser mass spectroscopy. The lipids are located in the hydrophobic region of the protein surface and interact predominately with hydrophobic amino acids, in particular aromatic residues. Although the cardiolipin is over 15 A from the cofactors, the other two lipids are in close contact with the cofactors and may contribute to the difference in energetics for the two branc	2002	9	27	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Cardiolipins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipids; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Reproducibility of Results; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Surface Properties	Camara-Artigas	A
12144789	10.1016/s0022-2836(02)00619-8	The X-ray crystal structures of wild-type and EQ(I-286) mutant cytochrome c oxidases from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The structure of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been solved at 2.3/2.8A (anisotropic resolution). This high-resolution structure revealed atomic details of a bacterial terminal oxidase including water molecule positions and a potential oxygen pathway, which has not been reported in other oxidase structures. A comparative study of the wild-type and the EQ(I-286) mutant enzyme revealed structural rearrangements around E(I-286) that could be crucial for proton transfer in this enzyme. In the structure of the mutant enzyme, EQ(I-286), which cannot transfer protons during oxygen reduction, the side-chain of Q(I-286) does not have the hydrogen bond to the carbonyl oxygen of M(I-107) that is seen in the wild-type structure. Furthermore, the Q(I-286) mutant has a different arrangement of water molecules and residues in the vicinity of the Q side-chain. These differences between the structures could reflect conformational changes that take place upon deprotonation of E(I-	2002	9	23	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Binding Sites; Catalysis; Copper; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Bonding; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water; Xenon	Svensson-Ek	Margareta
12139627	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.03058.x	A single flavoprotein, AppA, integrates both redox and light signals in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Anoxygenic photosynthetic proteobacteria exhibit various light responses, including changing levels of expression of photosynthesis genes. However, the underlying mechanisms are largely unknown. We show that expression of the puf and puc operons encoding structural proteins of the photosynthetic complexes is strongly repressed by blue light under semi-aerobic growth in Rhodobacter sphaeroides but not in the related species Rhodobacter capsulatus. At very low oxygen tension, puf and puc expression is independent of blue light in both species. Photosynthetic electron transport does not mediate the blue light repression, implying the existence of specific photoreceptors. Here, we show that the flavoprotein AppA is likely to act as the photoreceptor for blue light-dependent repression during continuous illumination. The FAD cofactor of AppA is essential for the blue light-dependent sensory transduction of this response. AppA, which is present in R. sphaeroides but not in R. capsulatus, is 	2003	1	10	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light Signal Transduction; Models, Biological; Operon; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators	Braatsch	Stephan
12139621	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.03046.x	Pseudomonas aeruginosa RoxR, a response regulator related to Rhodobacter sphaeroides PrrA, activates expression of the cyanide-insensitive terminal oxidase.	The facultative anaerobe Pseudomonas aeruginosa has multiple aerobic electron transport pathways, one of which is terminated by a cyanide-insensitive oxidase (CIO). This study characterizes a P. aeruginosa two-component system that regulates CIO production. The response regulator of this system (RoxR) has significant amino acid sequence similarity to PrrA of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and related proteins in other alpha-proteobacteria. In heterologous complementation analysis, R. sphaeroides PrrA rescued the growth defect of a P. aeruginosa mutant lacking RoxR, and RoxR enabled photosynthetic growth of an R. sphaeroides PrrA mutant. Also, RoxR could substitute for PrrA in activating transcription in vitro, demonstrating that these proteins are functional homologues. P. aeruginosa strains lacking RoxR or the sensor kinase (RoxS) were more sensitive than wild type to the respiratory inhibitors cyanide and azide. The phenotypes of these mutant strains correlated with reduced cyanide-insensit	2003	1	10	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cyanides; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Histidine Kinase; Models, Biological; Operon; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen Consumption; Phosphorylation; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Kinases; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcriptional Activation	Comolli	James C
12134513	10.1023/a:1016076331697	Contribution of the processes of solvation of nonequilibrium states of cofactors to charge separation and electron transfer in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2003	2	12	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrum Analysis; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Gorokhov	V V
12128193	10.1016/s0301-4622(02)00088-1	Relocation of an internal proton donor in cytochrome c oxidase results in an altered pK(a) and a non-integer pumping stoichiometry.	Cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two proton-input pathways leading from the protein surface towards the catalytic site, located within the membrane-spanning part of the enzyme. One of these pathways, the D-pathway, contains a highly conserved Glu residue [E(I-286)], which plays an important role in proton transfer through the pathway. In a recent study, we showed that a mutant enzyme in which E(I-286) was re-located to the opposite side of the D-pathway [EA(I-286)/IE(I-112) double mutant enzyme] was able to pump protons, although with a stoichiometry that was lower than that of the wild-type enzyme (approximately 0.6 H(+)/e(-)) (Aagaard et al. (2000) Biochemistry 39, 15847-15850). These results showed that the residue must not necessarily be located at a specific place in the amino-acid sequence, but rather at a specific location in space. In this study, we have investigated the effect of moving E(I-286) on the kinetics of specific reaction steps of the catalytic c	2002	10	22	Biophys Chem	Biophysical chemistry	Binding Sites; Catalysis; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Potentiometry; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Gilderson	Gwen
12119028	10.1021/bi0256633	Effect of binding of Cd2+ on bacterial reaction center mutants: proton-transfer uses interdependent pathways.	In bacterial reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Cd2+ binds in stoichiometric amount to the protein. In the wild type, this results into a notable decrease of the rates of electron-transfer between the two quinone acceptors after the first (kAB(1)) and second flash (kAB(2)). We have studied these effects in two single mutants, L209PY and L209PF. L209Pro is situated in a protein region rich in hydrogen-bond networks involving water molecules. We show that (1) the combined effects of Cd2+ binding and point mutations have a cumulative consequence in the two mutants, decreasing very substantially the observed rates of electron-transfer. Interestingly, the [Cd2+] titration curves of kAB(2) in the L209PY and L209PF mutants are nearly superimposable to those previously reported for the M17DN and L210DN mutants (Paddock, M. L., Feher, G., and Okamura, M. Y. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci U.S.A. 97, 1548-1553). These observations suggest a common effect of all of these mutations (L209, M1	2002	8	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cadmium; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ion Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons	Gerencser	Laszlo
12115053	10.1007/s00203-002-0441-3	Genetics and control of CO(2) assimilation in the chemoautotroph Ralstonia eutropha.	The nutritional versatility of facultative autotrophs requires efficient overall control of their metabolism. Most of these organisms are Proteobacteria that assimilate CO(2) via the highly energy-demanding Calvin-Benson-Bassham reductive pentose-phosphate cycle. The enzymes of the cycle are encoded by cbb genes organized in cbb operons differing in size and composition, although conserved features are apparent. Transcription of the operons, which may form regulons, is strictly controlled, being induced during autotrophic but repressed to varying extents during heterotrophic growth of the bacteria. The chemoautotroph Ralstonia eutropha is one of the organisms studied extensively for the mechanisms involved in the expression of cbb gene systems. CbbR is a LysR-type transcriptional regulator and the key activator protein of cbb operons. The cbbR gene is typically located adjacent and in divergent orientation to its cognate operon. The activating function of CbbR seems to be modulated by 	2002	9	16	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Carbon Dioxide; Cupriavidus necator; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Operon; Phylogeny; Transcription Factors	Bowien	Botho
12102631	10.1021/bi020183x	Ca(2+)-binding site in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome C oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) from R. sphaeroides contains one Ca(2+) ion per enzyme that is not removed by dialysis versus EGTA. This is similar to COX from Paracoccus denitrificans [Pfitzner, U., Kirichenko, A., Konstantinov, A. A., Mertens, M., Wittershagen, A., Kolbesen, B. O., Steffens, G. C. M., Harrenga, A., Michel, H., and Ludwig, B. (1999) FEBS Lett. 456, 365-369] and is in contrast to the bovine oxidase, which binds Ca(2+) reversibly. A series of R. sphaeroides mutants with replacements of the E54, Q61, and D485 residues, which form the Ca(2+) coordination sphere in subunit I, has been generated. The substitutions for the E54 residue do not assemble normally. Mutants with the Q61 replacements are active and retain the tightly bound Ca(2+); their spectra are not perturbed by added Ca(2+) or EGTA. The D485A mutant is active, binds to Ca(2+) reversibly, like the mitochondrial oxidase, and exhibits the red shift in the heme a absorption spectrum upon Ca(2+) binding for both reduced 	2002	8	26	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Binding Sites; Calcium; Cattle; Egtazic Acid; Electron Transport Complex IV; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Paracoccus denitrificans; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Lee	Alex
12093289	10.1021/bi025608u	(13)C MAS NMR and photo-CIDNP reveal a pronounced asymmetry in the electronic ground state of the special pair of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	Reaction centers of wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides were selectively (13)C-isotope labeled in bacteriochlorophyll and bacteriopheophytin. (13)C solid-state CP/MAS NMR and photo-CIDNP were used to provide insight into the electronic structure of the primary electron donor and acceptor on the atomic scale. The first 2-dimensional photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) (13)C-(13)C solid-state MAS NMR spectra reveal that negative charging of the two BChl rings of the primary donor is involved in ground-state tuning of the oxidation potential of these cofactors in the protein via local electrostatic interactions. In particular, the (13)C shifts show moderate differences in the electronic structure between the two BChl molecules of the special pair in the electronic ground state, which can be attributed to hydrogen bonding of one of the BChl molecules. The major fraction of the electron spin density is strongly delocalized over the two BChl molecules of the spec	2002	8	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Darkness; Electrochemistry; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Schulten	Els A M
12093288	10.1021/bi011663b	Isolation, size estimates, and spectral heterogeneity of an oligomeric series of light-harvesting 1 complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A series of light-harvesting 1 (LH1) complexes was isolated by lithium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at 4 degrees C from Rhodobacter sphaeroides M21, which lacks the peripheral light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complex. This ladder of LH1 bands was also demonstrated in the wild type, partially superimposed upon a smaller number of LH2 complexes. An assessment of electrophoretic mobility vs acrylamide concentration, in which the reaction center LM particle and annular LH1 and LH2 complexes were used as standards of known structure, indicated that the LH1 gel bands 2 to 10 represent regular oligomers of an alpha beta heterodimeric unit, that vary in size from (alpha beta)(2-3) to (alpha beta)(10-11). The isolated LH1 complexes exhibited oligomeric state dependent optical properties, characterized by red shifts in near-IR absorption and emission maxima at 77 K of approximately 6 nm as aggregate sizes increased from approximately 3 to 7-8 alpha beta-heterodimers, accompanied by	2002	8	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Freeze Fracturing; Light; Microscopy, Electron; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry	Westerhuis	Willem H J
12081322	10.1562/0031-8655(2002)075&lt;0605:LARDTS&gt;2.0.CO;2	Light- and redox-dependent thermal stability of the reaction center of the photosynthetic Bacterium rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Irreversible loss of the photochemical activity and damage of the pigments (bacteriochlorophyll [Bchl] monomer, Bchl dimer [P] and bacteriopheophytin) by combined treatment with intense and continuous visible light and elevated temperature have been studied in a deoxygenated solution of reaction center (RC) protein from the nonsulfur purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Both the fraction of RC in the charge-separated redox state (P+Q-, where Q is a quinone electron acceptor) and the degradation of the pigments showed saturation as a function of increasing light intensity up to 400 mW cm(-2) (488/515 nm) or 1100 microE m(-2) s(-1) (white light). The thermal denaturation curves of the RC in the P+Q- redox state demonstrated broadening and 10-20 degrees C shift to lower temperature (after 30-90 min heat treatment) compared with those in the PQ redox state. Similar but less striking behavior was seen for RC of other redox states (P+Q and PQ-) generated either by light o	2002	8	2	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacteriochlorophylls; Hot Temperature; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Tokaji	Zsolt
12079379	10.1016/S0022-2836(02)00424-2	Expression, purification and characterisation of full-length histidine protein kinase RegB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The global redox switch between aerobic and anaerobic growth in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is controlled by the RegA/RegB two-component system, in which RegB is the integral membrane histidine protein kinase, and RegA is the cytosolic response regulator. Despite the global regulatory importance of this system and its many homologues, there have been no reported examples to date of heterologous expression of full-length RegB or any histidine protein kinases. Here, we report the amplified expression of full-length functional His-tagged RegB in Escherichia coli, its purification, and characterisation of its properties. Both the membrane-bound and purified solubilised RegB protein demonstrate autophosphorylation activity, and the purified protein autophosphorylates at the same rate under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions confirming that an additional regulator is required to control/inhibit autophosphorylation. The intact protein has similar activity to previously characterised soluble fo	2002	8	9	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Cell Membrane; Circular Dichroism; Dimerization; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Oxidation-Reduction; Phosphorylation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plasmids; Protein Kinases; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Potter	Christopher A
12069302		Acute toxicity of triorganotin compounds: different specific effects on the energy metabolism and role of pH.	Triorganotin compounds exhibit several modes of toxic action on the energy metabolism in energy-transducing membranes. The inhibition of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase and the hydroxide/chloride-antiport have been extensively investigated, but debate still exists on whether further mechanisms are relevant. In this work, two possible further effects have been investigated: inhibition of the bc1 complex and the hydroxide uniport, and in addition, the overall inhibition of the ATP synthesis was investigated in chromatophores of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides at pH = 7.5 and pH = 6.1. Experimental conditions were chosen in order to exclude the hydroxide/anion antiport as a possible effect. Inhibition of the cytochromes bc1 complex was detected, but at such high concentrations that it is not relevant for acute toxicity. Tributyltin was found to induce a decrease of the membrane potential, which can be attributed to a hydroxide uniport, whereas for tri	2002	11	19	Environ Toxicol Chem	Environmental toxicology and chemistry	ATP Synthetase Complexes; Adenosine Triphosphate; Chromatophores; Energy Metabolism; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroxides; Ion Transport; Membrane Potentials; Organotin Compounds; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Hunziker	Ren.. W
12068606		[Participation of inorganic phosphates as electron donors in the primary reactions of photosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	The formation of ATP during photophosphorylation in chromatophores from purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the presence of phenazine methosulfate and without exogenous electron carriers under constant illumination and by the action of single light flashes was studied. It was shown that the photoinduced transport of electrons to the exogenous electron acceptor depends on phosphate. It was assumed that phosphate ions are electron donors in the reaction center P870; by the action of light, P870 converts the phosphate ion HPO4(2-) into anion radical HPO4-.. In the difference EPR spectra "light minus darkness" at 77 K, an asymmetrical doublet signal with a weak low-field line was observed. The signal had a g-tensor of about 2.014 and a hyperfine coupling constant of about 2.5 mT and belongs probably to the phosphate anion radical.	2002	7	2	Biofizika	Biofizika	Adenosine Triphosphate; Anions; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Light; Methylphenazonium Methosulfate; Phosphates; Phosphorylation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Goncharova	N V
12068604		[Effects of relaxation processes on the temperature dependence of oxidation rate of photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll on the primary quinone in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	The temperature dependence of the time of dark recombination of charges between photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll and reduced primary quinone acceptor (tau e) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers was studied in the temperature range 140-320 K. It was found that the function tau e = tau e(T) is nonmonotonous: in the temperature range from 140 to 290 K, tau e is increased from 40 to 100 ms; however, under further heating to 320 K, tau e decreased to 80 ms. The replacement of H2O by D2O in these preparations caused an acceleration of the recombination process in the range of physiological temperatures, but the nonmonotonous character of the function tau e(T) remained. The theoretical interpretation of the results was made in the framework of the theory of electron-phonon interactions with allowance for the relaxation processes.	2002	7	2	Biofizika	Biofizika	Algorithms; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electricity; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Krasil'nikov	P M
12057946	10.1128/JB.184.13.3521-3529.2002	Involvement of the PrrB/PrrA two-component system in nitrite respiration in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3: evidence for transcriptional regulation.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.3 is capable of diverse metabolic lifestyles, including denitrification. The regulation of many Rhodobacter genes involved in redox processes is controlled, in part, by the PrrBA two-component sensor-regulator system, where PrrB serves as the sensor kinase and PrrA is the response regulator. Four strains of 2.4.3 carrying mutations within the prrB gene were isolated in a screen for mutants unable to grow anaerobically on medium containing nitrite. Studies revealed that the expression of nirK, the structural gene encoding nitrite reductase, in these strains was significantly decreased compared to its expression in 2.4.3. Disruption of prrA also eliminated the ability to grow both photosynthetically and anaerobically in the dark on nitrite-amended medium. Complementation with prrA restored the wild-type phenotype. The PrrA strain exhibited a severe decrease in both nitrite reductase activity and expression of a nirK-lacZ fusion. Nitrite reductase activi	2002	7	18	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Mutation; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcription, Genetic	Laratta	William P
12054804	10.1016/S0022-2836(02)00192-4	Assembly of light-harvesting bacteriochlorophyll in a model transmembrane helix in its natural environment.	The transmembrane, bacteriochlorophyll-binding region of a bacterial light-harvesting complex, (LH2-alpha from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides) was redesigned and overexpressed in a mutant of Rb. sphaeroides lacking LH2. Bacteriochlorophyll served as internal probe for the fitness of this new region for the assembly and energy transfer function of the LH2 complex. The ability to absorb and transfer light energy is practically undisturbed by the exchange of the transmembrane segment, valine -7 to threonine +6, of LH2-alpha with a 14 residue Ala-Leu sequence. This stretch makes up the residues of the transmembrane helix that are in close contact (&lt; or =4.5 A) with the bacteriochlorophyll molecules that are coordinated through His of both the alpha and beta-subunits. In this Ala-Leu stretch, neither alpha-His0, which binds the bacteriochlorophyll, nor the adjacent alpha-Ile-1, were replaced. Novel LH2 complexes composed of LH2-alpha with a model transmembrane seque	2002	6	27	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Cell Membrane; Cells, Cultured; Cytosol; DNA, Bacterial; Endopeptidases; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Mutation; Peptide Fragments; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Braun	P
12051924	10.1016/S0022-2836(02)00168-7	X-ray structure determination of the cytochrome c2: reaction center electron transfer complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a water soluble cytochrome c2 (cyt c2) is the electron donor to the reaction center (RC), the membrane-bound pigment-protein complex that is the site of the primary light-induced electron transfer. To determine the interactions important for docking and electron transfer within the transiently bound complex of the two proteins, RC and cyt c2 were co-crystallized in two monoclinic crystal forms. Cyt c2 reduces the photo-oxidized RC donor (D+), a bacteriochlorophyll dimer, in the co-crystals in approximately 0.9 micros, which is the same time as measured in solution. This provides strong evidence that the structure of the complex in the region of electron transfer is the same in the crystal and in solution. X-ray diffraction data were collected from co-crystals to a maximum resolution of 2.40 A and refined to an R-factor of 22% (R(free)=26%). The structure shows the cyt c2 to be positioned at the center of the periplasmic surface o	2002	7	16	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Cations; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Solutions; Static Electricity; Water	Axelrod	Herbert L
12045199	10.1074/jbc.M202594200	Photoinduced electron transfer between the Rieske iron-sulfur protein and cytochrome c(1) in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc(1) complex. Effects of pH, temperature, and driving force.	Electron transfer from the Rieske iron-sulfur protein to cytochrome c(1) (cyt c(1)) in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc(1) complex was studied using a ruthenium dimer complex, Ru(2)D. Laser flash photolysis of a solution containing reduced cyt bc(1), Ru(2)D, and a sacrificial electron acceptor results in oxidation of cyt c(1) within 1 micros, followed by electron transfer from the iron-sulfur center (2Fe-2S) to cyt c(1) with a rate constant of 80,000 s(-1). Experiments were carried out to evaluate whether the reaction was rate-limited by true electron transfer, proton gating, or conformational gating. The temperature dependence of the reaction yielded an enthalpy of activation of +17.6 kJ/mol, which is consistent with either rate-limiting conformational gating or electron transfer. The rate constant was nearly independent of pH over the range pH 7 to 9.5 where the redox potential of 2Fe-2S decreases significantly due to deprotonation of His-161. The rate constant was also not 	2002	9	23	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Light; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Engstrom	Gregory
12044180	10.1021/bi0256274	Catalytic function and local proton structure at the type 2 copper of nitrite reductase: the correlation of enzymatic pH dependence, conserved residues, and proton hyperfine structure.	Electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) of protons at Type 2 and Type 1 cupric active sites correlates with the enzymatic pH dependence, the mutation of nearby conserved, nonligating residues, and electron transfer in heterologously expressed Rhodobacter sphaeroides nitrite reductase. Wild-type enzyme showed a pH 6 activity maximum but no kinetic deuterium isotope effect, suggesting protons are not transferred in the rate-limiting step of nitrite reduction. However, protonatable Asp129 and His287, both located near the Type 2 center, modulated enzyme activity. ENDOR of the wild-type Type 2 center at pH 6.0 revealed an exchangeable proton with large hyperfine coupling. Dipolar distance estimates indicated that this proton was 2.50-2.75 or 2.25-2.45 A from Type 2 copper in the presence or absence of nitrite, respectively. This proton may provide a properly oriented hydrogen bond to enhance water formation upon nitrite reduction. This proton was eliminated at pH 5.0 and showed a diminis	2002	7	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Aspartic Acid; Binding Sites; Catalysis; Conserved Sequence; Copper; Cysteine; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nitrite Reductases; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins	Zhao	Yiwei
12034473	10.1016/s0005-2728(02)00215-3	Tuning of the optical and electrochemical properties of the primary donor bacteriochlorophylls in the reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: spectroscopy and structure.	A series of mutations have been introduced at residue 168 of the L-subunit of the reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In the wild-type reaction centre, residue His L168 donates a strong hydrogen bond to the acetyl carbonyl group of one of the pair of bacteriochlorophylls (BChl) that constitutes the primary donor of electrons. Mutation of His L168 to Phe or Leu causes a large decrease in the mid-point redox potential of the primary electron donor, consistent with removal of this strong hydrogen bond. Mutations to Lys, Asp and Arg cause smaller decreases in redox potential, indicative of the presence of weak hydrogen bond and/or an electrostatic effect of the polar residue. A spectroscopic analysis of the mutant complexes suggests that replacement of the wild-type His residue causes a decrease in the strength of the coupling between the two primary donor bacteriochlorophylls. The X-ray crystal structure of the mutant in which His L168 has been replaced by Phe (HL168F) was deter	2002	8	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electrochemistry; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Atomic; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Spiedel	Diane
12034469	10.1016/s0005-2728(02)00211-6	Selective perturbation of the second electron transfer step in mutant bacterial reaction centers.	In order to specifically perturb the primary electron acceptor B(A) -- a monomeric bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a -- involved in bacterial photosynthetic charge separation (CS), the protein environment of B(A) in the reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was modified by site-directed mutagenesis. Isolated RCs were characterized by redox titrations, low temperature optical spectroscopy, ENDOR/TRIPLE resonance spectroscopy and femtosecond time-resolved spectroscopy. Two mutations were studied: In the GS(M203) mutant a serine is introduced near the ring E keto group of B(A), while in FY(L146) a phenylalanine near the ring A acetyl group of B(A) is replaced by tyrosine. In all mutations the oxidation potential of the primary electron donor P as well as the electronic structure of both the P(*+) radical cation and the radical anion of the secondary electron acceptor, H(A)(*-), are not significantly altered compared to the wild type (WT), while changes of the optical absorption spect	2002	8	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Atomic	Schenkl	Selma
12027885	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.02907.x	The opgGIH and opgC genes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides form an operon that controls backbone synthesis and succinylation of osmoregulated periplasmic glucans.	Osmoregulated periplasmic glucans (OPGs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are anionic cyclic molecules that accumulate in large amounts in the periplasmic space in response to low osmolarity of the medium. Their anionic character is provided by the substitution of the glucosidic backbone by succinyl residues. A wild-type strain was subject to transposon mutagenesis, and putative mutant clones were screened for changes in OPGs by thin layer chromatography. One mutant deficient in succinyl substitution of the OPGs was obtained and the gene inactivated in this mutant was characterized and named opgC. opgC is located downstream of three ORFs, opgGIH, two of which are similar to the Escherichia coli operon, mdoGH, governing OPG backbone synthesis. Inactivation of opgG, opgI or opgH abolished OPG production and complementation analysis indicated that the three genes are necessary for backbone synthesis. In contrast, inactivation of a gene similar to ndvB, encoding the OPG-glucosyl transferase in S	2002	8	2	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Chromosome Mapping; Chromosomes, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Escherichia coli; Glucans; Membrane Proteins; Mutation; Operon; Phenotype; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Succinates; Virulence Factors; Water	Cogez	Virginie
12027884	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.02906.x	Osmoregulated periplasmic glucans of the free-living photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The osmoregulated periplasmic glucans (OPGs) produced by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a free-living organism, were isolated by trichloracetic acid treatment and gel permeation chromatography. Compounds obtained were characterized by compositional analysis, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. R. sphaeroides predominantly synthesizes a cyclic glucan containing 18 glucose residues that can be substituted by one to seven succinyl esters residues at the C6 position of some of the glucose residues, and by one or two acetyl residues. The glucans were subjected to a mild alkaline treatment in order to remove the succinyl and acetyl substituents, analyzed by MALDI mass spectrometry and purified by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography. Methylation analysis revealed that this glucan is linked by 17 1,2 glycosidic bonds and one 1,6 glycosidic bond. Homonuclear and (1)H/(13)C heteronuclear NMR experiments revealed the presence of a sin	2002	8	2	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Chromatography, Ion Exchange; Glucans; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Methylation; Molecular Sequence Data; Periplasm; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Talaga	Philippe
12026980	10.1021/es015844c	Baseline toxicity (narcosis) of organic chemicals determined by in vitro membrane potential measurements in energy-transducing membranes.	Baseline toxicity of a selection of industrial chemicals and pharmaceuticals is determined experimentally with a new in vitro test system (Kinspec) using membrane vesicles isolated from a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This test system is selective and more sensitive than other mechanistic test systems for baseline toxicity. The only concomitantly determined mechanism is uncoupling, which can be distinguished from baseline toxicity by pH-dependent measurements. Because the tests system contains only the target site for baseline toxicants, the biological membrane, effective target site concentrations can be directly related to observed effects by combining the in vitro test with membrane-water partition experiments. No differences were found between the effective membrane concentrations of nonpolar and polar compounds, confirming the earlier hypothesis that differences in lethal body burdens are primarily caused by unequal distribution of the compounds between target	2002	11	19	Environ Sci Technol	Environmental science &amp; technology	Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions; Environmental Pollutants; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Membranes, Artificial; Organic Chemicals; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toxicity Tests	Escher	Beate I
12023037	10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02744-8	N-terminal methylation of the core light-harvesting complex in purple photosynthetic bacteria.	Several core light-harvesting complexes from both sulfur and non-sulfur purple photosynthetic bacteria have been identified to be methylated at the N-terminal alpha-amino group of beta-polypeptides by using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. Monomethylation has been confirmed for the N-terminal alanine residues of the beta-polypeptides from Rhodospirillum rubrum, Thermochromatium tepidum and Chromatium vinosum, but not for the beta-polypeptide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The modification appears to be related with the amino acid sequence and charge distribution in the N-terminal end. Some common features and possible functions are discussed.	2002	6	24	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Chromatium; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Methylation; Molecular Weight; Peptide Fragments; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Sequence Analysis, Protein; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Wang	Zheng Yu
12009912	10.1021/bi012131y	Electrostatic interactions in an integral membrane protein.	The effects of charge-charge interactions on the midpoint reduction potential (E(m)()) of the primary electron donor (P) in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated by introducing mutations of ionizable amino acids at selected sites. The mutations were designed to alter the electrostatic environment of P, a bacteriochlorophyll dimer, without greatly affecting its structure or molecular orbitals. Two arginine residues at homologous positions in the L and M subunits [residues (L135) and (M164)], Asp (L155), Tyr (L164), and Cys (L247) were changed independently. Arginine (L135) was replaced by Lys, Leu, Gln, or Glu; Arg (M164), by Leu or Glu; Asp (L155), by Asn; Tyr (L164), by Phe; and Cys (L247), by Lys or Asp. The R(L135)E/C(L247)K double mutant also was made. The shift in the E(m)() of P/P(+) was measured in each mutant and was compared with the effect predicted by electrostatics calculations using several different computational approaches. A sim	2002	6	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Johnson	E T
12009433	10.1016/s1567-5394(02)00021-x	Coupling of electron and proton transport in photosynthetic membranes: molecular mechanism.	Using the method of Modified Neglect of Diatomic Overlap (MNDO), the electronic structure of plastoquinol (PQH(2)) and plastoquinone (PQ) in neutral, singly (PQ(-)) and doubly (PQ(2-)) reduced states is studied. The conformational analysis performed on these molecules shows that in the lowest energy conformation, the angle between the first link of the tail backbone and the ring plane of neutral and singly reduced PQ and plastoquinol is nearly the same and differs by 15 degrees from that of doubly reduced PQ. Nevertheless, for all states of plastoquinone and for plastoquinol, the total energy changes by less than 0.2 eV when the studied angle is varied from 0 degrees to 180 degrees. As in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the oxygen of the PQ ring is reported to form a hydrogen bond with a nitrogen in the ring of Histidine (His) L 190. The energy of the PQ-His complex was calculated for different redox states of PQ and for several values of the distance between the molecules (N-O distance from 	2002	12	4	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Electrons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plastoquinone; Protons	Kukushkin	A
11997141	10.1016/s0005-2728(02)00186-x	Rapid-scan Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy shows coupling of GLu-L212 protonation and electron transfer to Q(B) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	Rapid-scan Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy was used to investigate the electron transfer reaction Q(A-)Q(B)--&gt;Q(A)Q(B-) (k(AB)(1)) in mutant reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, where Asp-L210 and/or Asp-M17 have been replaced with Asn. Mutation of both residues decreases drastically k(AB)(1)), attributed to slow proton transfer to Glu-L212, which becomes rate limiting for electron transfer to Q(B) [M.L. Paddock et al., Biochemistry 40 (2001) 6893]. In the double mutant, the FTIR difference spectrum recorded during the time window 4-29 ms following a flash showed peaks at 1670 (-), 1601 (-) and 1467 (+) cm(-1), characteristic of Q(A) reduction. The time evolution of the spectra shows reoxidation of Q(A-) and concomitant reduction of Q(B) with a kinetics of about 40 ms. In native reaction centers and in both single mutants, formation of Q(B-) occurs much faster than in the double mutant. Within the time resolution of the technique, protonation of Glu	2002	8	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Benzoquinones; Electron Transport; Hydroquinones; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Mezzetti	Alberto
11997009	10.1016/s0014-5793(02)02532-2	PrrC from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a homologue of eukaryotic Sco proteins, is a copper-binding protein and may have a thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase activity.	PrrC from Rhodobacter sphaeroides provides the signal input to a two-component signal transduction system that senses changes in oxygen tension and regulates expression of genes involved in photosynthesis (Eraso, J.M. and Kaplan, S. (2000) Biochemistry 39, 2052-2062; Oh, J.-I. and Kaplan, S. (2000) EMBO J. 19, 4237-4247). It is also a homologue of eukaryotic Sco proteins and each has a C-x-x-x-C-P sequence. In mitochondrial Sco proteins these cysteines appear to be essential for the biogenesis of the CuA centre of respiratory cytochrome oxidase. Overexpression and purification of a water-soluble and monomeric form of PrrC has provided sufficient material for a chemical and spectroscopic study of the properties of the four cysteine residues of PrrC, and its ability to bind divalent cations, including copper. PrrC expressed in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli binds Ni2+ tightly and the data are consistent with a mononuclear metal site. Following removal of Ni2+ and formation of renature	2002	5	29	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acid Motifs; Animals; Apoenzymes; Bacterial Proteins; Carrier Proteins; Copper; Cysteine; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Eukaryotic Cells; Mitochondrial Proteins; Protein Disulfide Reductase (Glutathione); Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribonucleases; Water	McEwan	Alastair G
11983861	10.1073/pnas.092327799	Key role of proline L209 in connecting the distant quinone pockets in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers convert light excitation into chemical free energy. The initial electron transfer leads to the consecutive semireductions of the primary (Q(A)) and secondary (Q(B)) quinone acceptors. The Q(A)(-) and Q(B)(-) formations induce proton uptake from the bulk. Their magnitudes (H(+)/Q(A)(-) and H(+)/Q(B)(-), respectively) probe the electrostatic interactions within the complex. The pH dependence of H(+)/Q(A)(-) and H(+)/Q(B)(-) were studied in five single mutants modified at the L209 site (L209P--&gt;F,Y,W,E,T). This residue is situated at the border of a continuous chain of water molecules connecting Q(B) to the bulk. In the wild type (WT), a proton uptake band is present at high pH in the H(+)/Q(A)(-) and H(+)/Q(B)(-) curves and is commonly attributed to a cluster of acidic groups situated nearby Q(B). In the H(+)/Q(A)(-) curves of the L209 variants, this band is systematically absent but remains in the H(+)/Q(B)(-) curves. Moreover, notable increa	2002	6	18	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Benzoquinones; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proline; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tandori	J
11980484	10.1021/bi012053e	Double mutant studies identify electrostatic interactions that are important for docking cytochrome c2 onto the bacterial reaction center.	Cytochrome c2 (cyt) is the mobile electron donor to the reaction center (RC) in photosynthetic bacteria. The electrostatic interactions involved in the dynamics of docking of cyt onto the RC were examined by double mutant studies of the rates of electron transfer between six modified Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs in which negatively charged acid residues were replaced with Lys and five modified Rhodobacter capsulatus Cyt c2 molecules in which positively charged Lys residues were replaced with Glu. We measured the second-order rate constant, k2, for electron transfer from the reduced cyt to the oxidized primary donor on the RC, which reflects the energy of the transition state for the formation of the active electron transfer complex. Strong interactions were found between Lys C99 and Asp M184/Glu M95, and between Lys C54 and Asp L261/Asp L257. The interacting residues were found to be located close to each other in the recently determined crystal structure of the cyt-RC complex [Axelrod,	2002	5	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter; Static Electricity; Structure-Activity Relationship; Thermodynamics	Tetreault	M
11976082	10.1128/AEM.68.5.2140-2147.2002	Taxis response of various denitrifying bacteria to nitrate and nitrite.	The taxis response of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 and 2.4.3, Rhodopseudomonas palustris, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens to nitrate and nitrite was evaluated by observing the macroscopic behavior of cells suspended in soft agar and incubated under various conditions. R. sphaeroides 2.4.3, which is capable of both nitrate and nitrite reduction, showed a taxis response to both nitrate and nitrite. R. sphaeroides 2.4.1, which contains nitrate reductase but not nitrite reductase, did not show a taxis response towards either nitrogen oxide. Insertional inactivation of the nitrite reductase structural gene or its transcriptional regulator, NnrR, in strain 2.4.3 caused a loss of a taxis response towards both nitrate and nitrite. An isolate of 2.4.1 carrying a copy of the nitrite reductase gene from 2.4.3 showed a taxis response to both nitrogen oxides. The taxis response of 2.4.3 was observed under anaerobic conditions, suggesting that the taxis response was due to nitrate and nitrite respira	2002	7	12	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Agrobacterium tumefaciens; Chemotaxis; Light; Nitrates; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Oxidants; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas	Lee	Dong Yun
11972067	10.1073/pnas.092626599	An alternative carotenoid-to-bacteriochlorophyll energy transfer pathway in photosynthetic light harvesting.	Blue and green sunlight become available for photosynthetic energy conversion through the light-harvesting (LH) function of carotenoids, which involves transfer of carotenoid singlet excited states to nearby (bacterio)chlorophylls (BChls). The excited-state manifold of carotenoids usually is described in terms of two singlet states, S(1) and S(2), of which only the latter can be populated from the ground state by the absorption of one photon. Both states are capable of energy transfer to (B)Chl. We recently showed that in the LH1 complex of the purple bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum, which is rather inefficient in carotenoid-to-BChl energy transfer, a third additional carotenoid excited singlet state is formed. This state, which we termed S*, was found to be a precursor on an ultrafast fission reaction pathway to carotenoid triplet state formation. Here we present evidence that S* is formed with significant yield in the LH2 complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which has a highly efficie	2002	6	11	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Lasers; Light; Photons; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors	Papagiannakis	Emmanouil
11967082	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2002.02871.x	Functional assembly of the foreign carotenoid lycopene into the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, achieved by replacement of the native 3-step phytoene desaturase with its 4-step counterpart from Erwinia herbicola.	Photosynthetic organisms synthesize a diverse range of carotenoids. These pigments are important for the assembly, function and stability of photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes, and they are used to quench harmful radicals. The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was used as a model system to explore the origin of carotenoid diversity. Replacing the native 3-step phytoene desaturase (CrtI) with the 4-step enzyme from Erwinia herbicola results in significant flux down the spirilloxanthin pathway for the first time in Rb. sphaeroides. In Rb. sphaeroides, the completion of four desaturations to lycopene by the Erwinia CrtI appears to require the absence of CrtC and, in a crtC background, even the native 3-step enzyme can synthesize a significant amount (13%) of lycopene, in addition to the expected neurosporene. We suggest that the CrtC hydroxylase can intervene in the sequence of reactions catalyzed by phytoene desaturase. We investigated the properties of the lycopene-	2002	8	16	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Antioxidants; Carotenoids; Cell Membrane; DNA Primers; Erwinia; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Lycopene; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Garcia-Asua	Guillermo
11952789	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2002.02834.x	Role of the N- and C-terminal regions of the PufX protein in the structural organization of the photosynthetic core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is formed by the association of the light-harvesting antenna 1 (LH1) and the reaction center (RC). The PufX protein is essential for photosynthetic growth; it is located within the core in a 1 : 1 stoichiometry with the RC. PufX is required for a fast ubiquinol exchange between the Q(B) site of the RC and the Qo site of the cytochrome bc1 complex. In vivo the LH1-PufX-RC complex is assembled in a dimeric form, where PufX is involved as a structural organizer. We have modified the PufX protein at the N and the C-terminus with progressive deletions. The nine mutants obtained have been characterized for their ability for photosynthetic growth, the insertion of PufX in the core LH1-RC complex, the stability of the dimers and the kinetics of flash-induced reduction of cytochrome b561 of the cytochrome bc1 complex. Deletion of 18 residues at the N-terminus destabilizes the dimer in vitro without preventing photosynthetic growth. The dimer (or a sta	2002	5	23	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Francia	Francesco
11931555		Oxygen-regulated expression of genes for pigment binding proteins in Rhodobacter capsulatus.	Oxygen is the major external factor affecting the expression of photosynthesis genes in facultatively photosynthetic bacteria. Many investigations over the last years mainly carried out on the closely related species Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides have identified a number of proteins involved in the oxygen-regulated signal pathway, in which the RegB/RegA two component system plays a central role. While the RegB/RegA system activates photosynthesis genes under low oxygen tension other proteins like CrtJ and PPBP have a repressing function under high oxygen tension. Additional DNA binding proteins like the integration host factor can modulate the expression of photosynthesis genes. The role of alternative sigma factors in this signal pathway is still unclear.	2002	11	5	J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of molecular microbiology and biotechnology	Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus	Gregor	Jutta
32689489	10.1071/PP01005	A mathematical model for quinone-herbicide competition in the reaction centres of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A quantitative model describing the amplitude of semiquinone absorption in photosynthetic reaction centres after successive flashes in the presence of increasing inhibitor concentration is presented. By using relatively simple algebra, the semiquinone signals can be calculated and fitted to the oscillation pattern by optimizing only two parameters; the electron and quinone equilibrium constants, Ke and Kq, respectively. In this work we expand our earlier model [Tandori et al. (1991) Photosynthetica 25, 159-166] by introducing the inhibitor equilibrium constant, Ki, describing the best fit of the model to the measured oscillation pattern. We found that there are characteristic parameters of the measured and normalized signal, and of those calculated from the mathematical model, which fit well with competitive Michaelis-Menten kinetics.	2020	7	21	Funct Plant Biol	Functional plant biology : FPB	NA	Halmschlager	Andrea
11917014	10.1093/nar/30.7.1539	Rhodobacter sphaeroides LexA has dual activity: optimising and repressing recA gene transcription.	Transcription of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides recA promoter (P(recA)) is induced upon DNA damage in a lexA-dependent manner. In vivo experiments demonstrate that LexA protein represses and might also activate transcription of P(recA). Purified R.sphaeroides LexA protein specifically binds the SOS boxes located within the P(recA) region. In vitro transcription analysis, using Escherichia coli RNA polymerase (RNAP), indicated that the presence of LexA may stimulate and repress transcription of P(recA). EMSA and DNase I footprinting experiments show that LexA and RNAP can bind simultaneously to P(recA). At low LexA concentrations it enhances RNAP binding to P(recA), stimulates open complex formation and strand separation beyond the transcription start site. At high LexA concentrations, however, RNAP-promoted strand separation is not observed beyond the +5 region. LexA might repress transcription by interfering with the clearance process instead of blocking the access of RNAP to the promote	2002	5	3	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Bacterial Proteins; DNA; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Macromolecular Substances; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Protein Binding; Rec A Recombinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine Endopeptidases; Transcription, Genetic	Tapias	Angels
11900556	10.1021/bi011741v	Dynamics of energy transfer from lycopene to bacteriochlorophyll in genetically-modified LH2 complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	LH2 complexes from Rb. sphaeroides were modified genetically so that lycopene, with 11 saturated double bonds, replaced the native carotenoids which contain 10 saturated double bonds. Tuning the S1 level of the carotenoid in LH2 in this way affected the dynamics of energy transfer within LH2, which were investigated using both steady-state and time-resolved techniques. The S1 energy of lycopene in n-hexane was determined to be approximately 12 500 +/- 150 cm(-1), by direct measurement of the S1-S2 transient absorption spectrum using a femtosecond IR-probing technique, thus placing an upper limit on the S1 energy of lycopene in the LH2 complex. Fluorescence emission and excitation spectra demonstrated that energy can be transferred from lycopene to the bacteriochlorophyll molecules within this LH2 complex. The energy-transfer dynamics within the mutant complex were compared to wild-type LH2 from Rb. sphaeroides containing the carotenoid spheroidene and from Rs. molischianum, in which ly	2002	4	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cloning, Molecular; Energy Transfer; Lycopene; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	H..rvin Billsten	H
11889097	10.1128/JB.184.7.1905-1915.2002	Metabolic signals that lead to control of CBB gene expression in Rhodobacter capsulatus.	Various mutant strains were used to examine the regulation and metabolic control of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) reductive pentose phosphate pathway in Rhodobacter capsulatus. Previously, a ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO)-deficient strain (strain SBI/II) was found to show enhanced levels of cbb(I) and cbb(II) promoter activities during photoheterotrophic growth in the presence of dimethyl sulfoxide. With this strain as the starting point, additional mutations were made in genes encoding phosphoribulokinase and transketolase and in the gene encoding the LysR-type transcriptional activator, CbbR(II). These strains revealed that a product generated by phosphoribulokinase was involved in control of CbbR-mediated cbb gene expression in SBI/II. Additionally, heterologous expression experiments indicated that Rhodobacter sphaeroides CbbR responded to the same metabolic signal in R. capsulatus SBI/II and mutant strain backgrounds.	2002	4	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutation; Phenotype; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Signal Transduction; Transcription Factors	Tichi	Mary A
11882718	10.1099/00221287-148-3-825	Characterization of a member of the NnrR regulon in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 encoding a haem-copper protein.	Upstream of the nor and nnrR cluster in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 is a previously uncharacterized gene that has been designated nnrS. nnrS is only expressed when 2.4.3 is grown under denitrifying conditions. Expression of nnrS is dependent on the transcriptional regulator NnrR, which also regulates expression of genes required for the reduction of nitrite to nitrous oxide, including nirK and nor. Deletion analysis indicated the sequence 5'-TTGCG(N4)CACAA-3', which is similar to sequences found in nirK and nor, is required for nnrS expression. Mutation of this sequence to the consensus Fnr-binding sequence by changing two bases in each half site caused nnrS expression to become nitrate independent. Inactivation of nnrS did not affect nitric oxide metabolism, nor did it affect expression of any of the genes involved in nitric oxide metabolism. However, taxis towards nitrate and nitrite was affected by nnrS inactivation. Purification of a histidine-tagged NnrS demonstrated that NnrS i	2002	6	20	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Copper; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hemeproteins; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis; Nitrites; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Trans-Activators	Bartnikas	Thomas B
11872721	10.1128/JB.184.6.1693-1702.2002	Regulation of nap gene expression and periplasmic nitrate reductase activity in the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM158.	Bacterial periplasmic nitrate reductases (Nap) can play different physiological roles and are expressed under different conditions depending on the organism. Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM158 has a Nap system, encoded by the napKEFDABC gene cluster, but nitrite formed is not further reduced because this strain lacks nitrite reductase. Nap activity increases in the presence of nitrate and oxygen but is unaffected by ammonium. Reverse transcription-PCR and Northern blots demonstrated that the napKEFDABC genes constitute an operon transcribed as a single 5.5-kb product. Northern blots and nap-lacZ fusions revealed that nap expression is threefold higher under aerobic conditions but is regulated by neither nitrate nor ammonium, although it is weakly induced by nitrite. On the other hand, nitrate but not nitrite causes a rapid enzyme activation, explaining the higher Nap activity found in nitrate-grown cells. Translational nap'-'lacZ fusions reveal that the napK and napD genes are not efficien	2002	4	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Arabidopsis Proteins; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Enzyme Activation; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Multigene Family; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Nitrates; Nitrites; Periplasm; Plant Proteins; Protein Biosynthesis; Quaternary Ammonium Compounds; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Gavira	M..nica
11872709	10.1128/JB.184.6.1578-1586.2002	Rhodospirillum rubrum possesses a variant of the bchP gene, encoding geranylgeranyl-bacteriopheophytin reductase.	The bchP gene product of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is responsible for the reduction of the isoprenoid moiety of bacteriochlorophyll (Bchl) from geranylgeraniol (GG) to phytol; here, we show that this enzyme also catalyzes the reduction of the isoprenoid moiety of bacteriopheophytin (Bphe). In contrast, we demonstrate that a newly identified homolog of this gene in Rhodospirillum rubrum encodes an enzyme, GG-Bphe reductase, capable of reducing the isoprenoid moiety of Bphe only. We propose that Rhodospirillum rubrum is a naturally occurring bchP mutant and that an insertion mutation may have been the initial cause of a partial loss of function. Normal BchP function can be restored to Rhodospirillum rubrum, creating a new transconjugant strain possessing Bchl esterified with phytol. We speculate on the requirement of Rhodospirillum rubrum for phytylated Bphe and on a potential link between the absence of LH2 and of phytylated Bchl from the wild-type bacterium. The identification of a secon	2002	4	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Genetic Variation; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Oxidoreductases; Pheophytins; Photosynthesis; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Sequence Alignment	Addlesee	Hugh A
11864982	10.1074/jbc.M200198200	Oxygen adaptation. The role of the CcoQ subunit of the cbb3 cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides consists of four nonidentical subunits. Three subunits (CcoN, CcoO, and CcoP) comprise the catalytic "core" complex required for the reduction of O(2) and the oxidation of a c-type cytochrome. On the other hand, the functional role of subunit IV (CcoQ) of the cbb(3) oxidase was not obvious, although we previously suggested that it is involved in the signal transduction pathway controlling photosynthesis gene expression (Oh, J. I., and Kaplan, S. (1999) Biochemistry 38, 2688-2696). Here we go on to demonstrate that subunit IV protects the core complex, in the presence of O(2), from proteolytic degradation by a serine metalloprotease. In the absence of CcoQ, we suggest that the presence of O(2) leads to the loss of heme from the core complex, which destabilizes the cbb(3) oxidase into a "degradable" form, perhaps by altering its conformation. Under aerobic conditions the absence of CcoQ appears to affect the CcoP subunit most sev	2002	7	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Conjugation, Genetic; DNA Primers; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Stability; Genotype; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxygen; Phenotype; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Pseudomonas; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine Endopeptidases; Signal Transduction	Oh	Jeong-Il
11864841	10.1016/s1471-4906(01)02169-x	Does the shape of lipid A determine the interaction of LPS with Toll-like receptors?	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) triggers the activation of the immune system through the induction of cytokine release. Although it was assumed initially that LPS molecules from different bacteria are similar, recent evidence suggests that structural and functional differences between LPS species are the rule rather than the exception. It has been proposed that the shape of the lipid A component determines the bioactivity of LPS, with lipid A that adopts a conical conformation being more active than lipid A that adopts a cylindrical shape. The mechanism linking the molecular conformation with the biological activity of LPS has not been elucidated. We propose that LPS with a conical shape (e.g. from Escherichia coli) induces cytokine production through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), whereas more cylindrical LPS (e.g. from Porphyromonas gingivalis) induces expression of a different set of cytokines through TLR2. Strictly cylindrical LPS molecules (e.g. the lipid A precursor Ia or from Rhodobacter	2002	6	20	Trends Immunol	Trends in immunology	Animals; Carbohydrate Conformation; Cytokines; Drosophila Proteins; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Membrane Glycoproteins; Mice; Models, Molecular; Receptors, Cell Surface; Toll-Like Receptor 2; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Toll-Like Receptors	Netea	Mihai G
11863447	10.1021/bi011450m	High yield of B-branch electron transfer in a quadruple reaction center mutant of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A new reaction center (RC) quadruple mutant, called LDHW, of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is described. This mutant was constructed to obtain a high yield of B-branch electron transfer and to study P(+)Q(B)(-) formation via the B-branch. The A-branch of the mutant RC contains two monomer bacteriochlorophylls, B(A) and beta, as a result of the H mutation L(M214)H. The latter bacteriochlorophyll replaces bacteriopheophytin H(A) of wild-type RCs. As a result of the W mutation A(M260)W, the A-branch does not contain the ubiquinone Q(A); this facilitates the study of P(+)Q(B)(-) formation. Furthermore, the D mutation G(M203)D introduces an aspartic acid residue near B(A). Together these mutations impede electron transfer through the A-branch. The B-branch contains two bacteriopheophytins, Phi(B) and H(B), and a ubiquinone, Q(B.) Phi(B) replaces the monomer bacteriochlorophyll B(B) as a result of the L mutation H(M182)L. In the LDHW mutant we find 35-45% B-branch electron transfer, the highest yi	2002	4	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quadruplets; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Atomic; Temperature	de Boer	Arjo L
11856340	10.1046/j.0014-2956.2001.02699.x	Exploring the primary electron acceptor (QA)-site of the bacterial reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Binding mode of vitamin K derivatives.	The functional replacement of the primary ubiquinone (QA) in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with synthetic vitamin K derivatives has provided a powerful tool to investigate the electron transfer mechanism. To investigate the binding mode of these quinones to the QA binding site we have determined the binding free energy and charge recombination rate from QA(-) to D+ (kAD) of 29 different 1,4-naphthoquinone derivatives with systematically altered structures. The most striking result was that none of the eight tested compounds carrying methyl groups in both positions 5 and 8 of the aromatic ring exhibited functional binding. To understand the binding properties of these quinones on a molecular level, the structures of the reaction center-naphthoquinone complexes were predicted with ligand docking calculations. All protein--ligand structures show hydrogen bonds between the carbonyl oxygens of the quinone and AlaM260 and HisM219 as found for the native	2002	4	5	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Ligands; Light; Models, Chemical; Molecular Conformation; Naphthoquinones; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone; Vitamin K	Hucke	Oliver
11851413	10.1021/bi0101244	Nuclear wavepacket motion between P and P(+)B(A)(-) potential surfaces with subsequent electron transfer to H(A) in bacterial reaction centers. 1. Room temperature.	Formation and coherent propagation of nuclear wavepackets on potential energy surfaces of the excited state of the primary electron donor P and of the charge transfer states P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) were studied in native and pheophytin-modified Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 reaction centers (RCs) induced by 25 fs excitation (where B(A) and H(A) are the primary and secondary electron acceptors, respectively). The processes were monitored by measuring coherent oscillations in kinetics of the time evolution of the stimulated emission band of P at 935 nm, of the absorption band of B(A)(-) at 1020 nm, and of the bleaching band of H(A) at 760 nm. It was found that the nuclear wavepacket motion on the 130-140 cm(-1) surface of P is directly induced by light absorption in P. When the wavepacket approaches the intersection between P and P(+)B(A)(-) surfaces at 120 and 380 fs delays, the formation of intermediate mixed-state emitting light at 935 nm (P) and absorbing light at 1020 nm (P(+)B(A	2002	3	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature	Yakovlev	Andrei G
11841222	10.1021/bi0114630	Mutants of the CuA site in cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: II. Rapid kinetic analysis of electron transfer.	The function of the binuclear Cu(A) center in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) was studied using two Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcO mutants involving direct ligands of the Cu(A) center, H260N and M263L. The rapid electron-transfer kinetics of the mutants were studied by flash photolysis of a cytochrome c derivative labeled with ruthenium trisbipyridine at lysine-55. The rate constant for intracomplex electron transfer from heme c to Cu(A) was decreased from 40000 s(-1) for wild-type CcO to 16000 s(-1) and 11000 s(-1) for the M263L and H260N mutants, respectively. The rate constant for electron transfer from Cu(A) to heme a was decreased from 90000 s(-1) for wild-type CcO to 4000 s(-1) for the M263L mutant and only 45 s(-1) for the H260N mutant. The rate constant for the reverse reaction, heme a to Cu(A), was calculated to be 66000 s(-1) for M263L and 180 s(-1) for H260N, compared to 17000 s(-1) for wild-type CcO. It was estimated that the redox potential of Cu(A) was increased by 120 mV for the	2002	3	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Binding Sites; Copper; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Histidine; Kinetics; Leucine; Ligands; Methionine; Organometallic Compounds; Photolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ruthenium; Ultracentrifugation	Wang	Kefei
11841221	10.1021/bi0114628	Mutants of the CuA site in cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: I. Spectral and functional properties.	To study the functional significance of the unusual bimetallic Cu(A) center of cytochrome c oxidase, the direct ligands of the Cu(A) center in subunit II of the holoenzyme were mutated. Two of the mutant forms, M263L and H260N, exhibit major changes in activity (10% and 1% of wild-type, respectively) and in near-infrared and EPR spectra, but metal analysis shows that both mutants retain two coppers in the Cu(A) center and both retain proton pumping activity. In M263L, multifrequency EPR studies indicate the coppers are still electronically coupled, while all the other metal centers in M263L appear unchanged, by visible, EPR, and FTIR spectroscopy. Nevertheless, heme a3 is very slow to reduce with cytochrome c or dithionite under stopped-flow and steady-state conditions. This effect appears to be secondary to the change in redox equilibrium between Cu(A) and heme a. The studies reported here and in Wang et al. [Wang, K., Geren, L., Zhen, Y., Ma, L., Ferguson-Miller, S., Durham, B., and 	2002	3	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Cell Membrane; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Glycine; Heme; Histidine; Iron; Kinetics; Leucine; Manganese; Methionine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Secondary; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Zhen	Yuejun
11832490	10.1074/jbc.M111922200	Membrane potential-controlled inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase by zinc.	Like many voltage-sensitive ion pumps, cytochrome c oxidase is inhibited by zinc. Binding of zinc to the outside surface of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase inhibits the enzyme with a K(I) of &lt; or = 5 microm when the enzyme is reconstituted into phospholipid vesicles in the presence of a membrane potential. In the absence of a membrane potential and a pH gradient, millimolar concentrations of zinc are required to inhibit. This differential inhibition causes a dramatic increase in the respiratory control ratio from 6 to 40 for wild-type oxidase. The external zinc inhibition is removed by EDTA and is not competitive with cytochrome c binding but is competitive with protons. Only Cd(2+) of the many metals tested (Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Ca(2+), Ba(2+), Li(2+), Cs(2+), Hg(2+), Ni(2+), Co(2+), Cu(2+) Tb(3+), Tm(3+)) showed inhibitory effects similar to Zn(2+). Proton pumping is slower and less efficient with zinc. The results suggest that zinc inhibits proton movement through a proto	2002	5	31	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Electron Transport Complex IV; Membrane Potentials; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Mills	Denise A
11831472	10.1007/s00253-001-0858-7	Biosynthesis, biotechnological production and applications of 5-aminolevulinic acid.	Microbial production of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) by photosynthetic bacteria compared to other bacteria and algae is reviewed. During aerobic-microaerobic cultivation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant strain CR520, control of the redox potential was effective for producing large amounts of extracellular ALA. ALA has been practically applied in agriculture as an herbicide, an insecticide and a growth-promoting factor for plants. New agricultural applications including salt tolerance and cold temperature tolerance of plants are also described. Finally, recent medical applications for cancer treatment, tumor diagnosis and other clinical uses are discussed.	2002	8	7	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacteria; Biotechnology; Eukaryota; Euryarchaeota; Humans; Photosensitizing Agents; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sasaki	K
11821051	10.1016/s0014-5793(01)03281-1	The observation of excited-state dynamical evolution in light-harvesting complex LH2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601.	With selective excitation around BChl-B800 and BChl-B850 absorption bands, we observed the evolution of excited-state dynamics in LH2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601. The dynamical traces demonstrate a dominant excited-state absorption (ESA) followed concomitantly by an ultrafast transmission increase and decay with pulse-width limited time scale at 818 nm and 828 nm excitation. The ESA occurring prior to excitonic thermalization or ground-state bleach was observed at 840 nm as well. These experimental results indicate the competition between the transition from excitonic states to higher-lying excited states and interexciton relaxation, which are of physical significance for understanding excitation transfer and related mechanisms in LH2.	2002	2	22	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Lasers; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Thermodynamics	Guo	Lijun
11806901	10.1016/S0006-3495(02)75421-0	Electron transfer kinetics in photosynthetic reaction centers embedded in trehalose glasses: trapping of conformational substates at room temperature.	We report on room temperature electron transfer in the reaction center (RC) complex purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The protein was embedded in trehalose-water systems of different trehalose/water ratios. This enabled us to get new insights on the relationship between RC conformational dynamics and long-range electron transfer. In particular, we measured the kinetics of electron transfer from the primary reduced quinone acceptor (Q(A)(-)) to the primary photo oxidized donor (P(+)), by time-resolved absorption spectroscopy, as a function of the matrix composition. The composition was evaluated either by weighing (liquid samples) or by near infrared spectroscopy (highly viscous or solid glasses). Deconvolution of the observed, nonexponential kinetics required a continuous spectrum of rate constants. The average rate constant (&lt;k&gt; = 8.7 s(-1) in a 28% (w/w) trehalose solution) increases smoothly by increasing the trehalose/water ratio. In solid glasses, at trehalose/water rat	2002	4	15	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Algorithms; Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Electrons; Glass; Glycerol; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Time Factors; Trehalose; Water	Palazzo	Gerardo
11795778	10.1021/ac010945e	Scanning electrochemical microscopy of living cells. 3. Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The scanning electrochemical microscope (SECM) was used to probe the redox activity of individual purple bacteria (Rhodobacter sphaeroides). The approaches developed in our previous studies of mammalian cells were expanded to measure the rates and investigate the pathway of transmembrane charge transfer in bacteria. The two groups of redox mediators (i.e., hydrophilic and hydrophobic redox species) were used to shuttle the electrons between the SECM tip electrode in solution and the redox centers inside the cell. The analysis of the dependencies of the measured rate constant on formal potential and concentration of mediator species in solution yielded information about the permeability of the outer cell membrane to different ionic species and intracellular redox properties. The maps of redox reactivity of the cell surface were obtained with a micrometer or submicrometer spatial resolution.	2002	3	13	Anal Chem	Analytical chemistry	Cell Membrane; Cell Membrane Permeability; Cells; Diagnostic Imaging; Electrochemistry; Microelectrodes; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cai	Chenxin
11786011	10.1006/jmbi.2001.5241	Characterization of activating region 3 from Escherichia coli FNR.	Transcription activation of anaerobically induced genes in Escherichia coli is mediated through the action of the global anaerobic regulator FNR. Although regions of FNR involved in FNR-dependent transcription activation have been identified, the side-chains critical to the function of these regions are not known. In this study, alanine-scanning of amino acid residues 80-89 of FNR-activating region 3 (FNR-AR3) was used to determine which amino acid side-chains are required for transcription activation of class II FNR-dependent promoters. In vivo beta-galactosidase assays and in vitro transcription activation assays showed that Ala substitution of Ile81, Gly85 and Asp86 had the largest transcription activation defects, while comparison of the activity of single and double mutants indicated that Thr82, Glu83, Glu87 and Gln88 may contribute in a minor way to FNR-AR3 function. Site-directed mutagenesis of positions 81 and 86 showed that the hydrophobicity of Ile81 and the negative charge o	2002	2	12	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; RNA Polymerase II; Sequence Alignment; Static Electricity; Structure-Activity Relationship; Transcription, Genetic; Transcriptional Activation	Lamberg	Karin E
11784129	10.1021/jm010400c	Bacteriopurpurinimides: highly stable and potent photosensitizers for photodynamic therapy.	The in situ conversion of the unstable bacteriochlorophyll a present in Rhodobacter sphaeroides produced highly stable bacteriopurpurin-18 which in a sequence of reactions was converted into a series of alkyl ether analogues of bacteriopurpurin-18-N-alkylimides with long wavelength absorption near 800 nm. The effective photosensitizers were found to localize in mitochondria but did not show any specific displacement of (3)H-PK11195, suggesting that the mitochondrial peripheral benzodiazepine receptor is not the cellular binding site for this class of compounds.	2002	2	7	J Med Chem	Journal of medicinal chemistry	Animals; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Binding, Competitive; Cell Line; Fluorescence; Mice; Neoplasm Transplantation; Neoplasms, Experimental; Photochemotherapy; Photosensitizing Agents; Porphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Skin; Skin Absorption; Spectrophotometry	Chen	Yihui
11772000	10.1021/bi011576j	Structure of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides light-harvesting 1 beta subunit in detergent micelles.	The light harvesting 1 antenna (LH1) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides funnels excitation energy to the photosynthetic reaction center. Our ultimate goal is to build up the structure of LH1 from structures of its individual subunits, much as the antenna can self-assemble from its components in membrane-mimicking detergent micelles. The beta subunit adopts a nativelike conformation in Zwittergent 3:12 micelles as demonstrated by its ability to take the first step of assembly, binding BChl a. Multidimensional NMR spectroscopy shows that the beta subunit folds as a helix((L12-S25))-hinge((G26-W28))-helix((L29-W44)) structure with the helical regions for the 10 lowest-energy structures having backbone rmsds of 0.26 and 0.24 A, respectively. Mn(2+) relaxation data and the protein-detergent NOE pattern show the C-terminal helix embedded in the micelle and the N-terminal helix lying along the detergent micelle surface with a 60 degrees angle between their long axes. (15)N relaxation data f	2002	1	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Binding Sites; Hydrogen Bonding; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Micelles; Models, Molecular; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Secondary; Quaternary Ammonium Compounds; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sorgen	Paul L
11751816	10.1128/JB.184.2.400-409.2002	Link between the membrane-bound pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase and glutathione-dependent processes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The presence of a glutathione-dependent pathway for formaldehyde oxidation in the facultative phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides has allowed the identification of gene products that contribute to formaldehyde metabolism. Mutants lacking the glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase (GSH-FDH) are sensitive to metabolic sources of formaldehyde, like methanol. This growth phenotype is correlated with a defect in formaldehyde oxidation. Additional methanol-sensitive mutants were isolated that contained Tn5 insertions in pntA, which encodes the alpha subunit of the membrane-bound pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase. Mutants lacking transhydrogenase activity have phenotypic and physiological characteristics that are different from those that lack GSH-FDH activity. For example, cells lacking transhydrogenase activity can utilize methanol as a sole carbon source in the absence of oxygen and do not display a formaldehyde oxidation defect, as determined by whole-cell (13)C-nuclear magnet	2002	1	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Cell Membrane; Diamide; Formaldehyde; Glutathione; Methanol; Mutation; NADP; NADP Transhydrogenases; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hickman	Jason W
11751815	10.1128/JB.184.2.390-399.2002	Transcriptional activation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c(2) gene P2 promoter by the response regulator PrrA.	Anoxygenic photosynthetic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a member of the alpha subclass of the class Proteobacteria, requires the response regulator PrrA. PrrA and the sensor kinase PrrB are part of a two-component signaling pathway that influences a wide range of processes under oxygen-limited conditions. In this work we characterized the pathway of transcription activation by PrrB and PrrA by purifying these proteins, analyzing them in vitro, and characterizing a mutant PrrA protein in vivo and in vitro. When purified, a soluble transmitter domain of PrrB (cPrrB) could autophosphorylate, rapidly transfer phosphate to PrrA, and stimulate dephosphorylation of phospho-PrrA. Unphosphorylated PrrA activated transcription from a target cytochrome c(2) gene (cycA) promoter, P2, which contained sequences from -73 to +22 relative to the transcription initiation site. However, phosphorylation of PrrA increased its activity since activation of cycA P2 was enhanced up to 15-fold by treatment	2002	1	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; Histidine Kinase; Phosphorylation; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcriptional Activation	Comolli	James C
11751290	10.1016/S0006-3495(02)75368-X	Transient binding of CO to Cu(B) in cytochrome c oxidase is dynamically linked to structural changes around a carboxyl group: a time-resolved step-scan Fourier transform infrared investigation.	The redox-driven proton pump cytochrome c oxidase is that enzymatic machinery of the respiratory chain that transfers electrons from cytochrome c to molecular oxygen and thereby splits molecular oxygen to form water. To investigate the reaction mechanism of cytochrome c oxidase on the single vibrational level, we used time-resolved step-scan Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and studied the dynamics of the reduced enzyme after photodissociation of bound carbon monoxide across the mid-infrared range (2300-950 cm(-1)). Difference spectra of the bovine complex were obtained at -20 degrees C with 5 micros time resolution. The data demonstrate a dynamic link between the transient binding of CO to Cu(B) and changes in hydrogen bonding at the functionally important residue E(I-286). Variation of the pH revealed that the pK(a) of E(I-286) is &gt;9.3 in the fully reduced CO-bound oxidase. Difference spectra of cytochrome c oxidase from beef heart are compared with those of the oxidase iso	2002	4	3	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Animals; Carbon Monoxide; Carboxylic Acids; Cattle; Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Kinetics; Light; Mitochondria, Heart; Oxidation-Reduction; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Water	Heitbrink	Dirk
16233427		Stimulation of porphyrin production by application of an external magnetic field to a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The effects of an external magnetic field on the production of porphyrin were investigated using Rhodobacter sphaeroides IF012203 under anaerobic-light conditions. Upon application of a 0.13-0.3-T magnetic field, the growth was slightly suppressed and porphyrin extracellular production was activated at both the N and S poles, particularly at the N pole up to about 5.3 times that in the control experiment (6.7 mg/1) (without magnetic filed application). The maximum production was 35.8 mg/1 at the N pole with a magnetic field of 0.3 T. At the same time, the 5-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) concentration was enhanced in the cells at the N and S poles, but particularly at the the N pole. This suggested the possibility that the magnetic field might activate ALAD gene expression in R. sphaeroides IF012203 and result in enhanced porphyrin production.	2005	11	8	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	NA	Utsunomiya	Takehiro
16233422	10.1016/s1389-1723(03)80070-1	Biosorption of cadmium ions using a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides S and a marine photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodovulum sp. and their biosorption kinetics.	We examined the biosorption characteristics of cadmium ions onto a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides S and a marine photosynthetic bacterium Rhodovulum sp. PS88 in a batch culture system. Both photosynthetic bacteria are capable of cadmium removal with 30 g/l sodium chloride and divalent cations (Mg2+ and Ca2+) in the culture medium. In particular, the strain PS88 shows a high removal ratio and high specific removal rate of cadmium ions from the culture medium under aerobic-dark (heterotrophic) and anaerobic-light (photoheterotrophic) conditions. The adsorption of cadmium onto strains PS88 and S is dependent on the cadmium concentration, and follows the Freundlich adsorption isotherm. In addition, biosorption isotherms for cadmium show that the strain PS88 exhibits higher values of the empirical constant for the cadmium adsorption capacity, Kr, than that of the strain S under both aerobic-dark (K(f)=17.44) and anaerobic-light (K(f)=1.270) conditions.	2005	11	8	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	NA	Watanabe	Masanori
16228603	10.1023/A:1023944605460	Characterization of a semi-stable, charge-separated state in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, subjected to continuous illumination in the presence of an inhibitor of the Q(A) to Q(B) electron transfer, the oxidation of P870 consisted of several kinetic phases with a fast initial reaction followed by very slow accumulation of P870(+) with a halftime of several minutes. When the light was turned off, a phase of fast charge recombination was followed by an equally slow reduction of P870(+). In reaction centers depleted of Q(B), where forward electron transfer from Q(A) is also prevented, the slow reactions were also observed but with different kinetic properties. The kinetic traces of accumulation and decay of P870(+) could be fitted to a simple three-state model where the initial, fast charge separation is followed by a slow reversible conversion to a long-lived, charge-stabilized state. Spectroscopic examination of the charge-separated, semi-stable state, using optical absorbance and EPR spectroscopy, suggests that the unpaired e	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Andr..asson	Ulf
16228601	10.1023/A:1023982327748	Interaction of bacteriochlorophyll with the LH1 and PufX polypeptides of photosynthetic bacteria: use of chemically synthesized analogs and covalently attached fluorescent probes.	The protein components of the reaction center (RC) and core light-harvesting (LH 1) complexes of photosynthetic bacteria have evolved to specifically, but non-covalently, bind bacteriochlorophyll (Bchl). The contribution to binding of specific structural elements in the protein and Bchl may be determined for the LH 1 complex because its subunit can be studied by reconstitution under equilibrium conditions. Important to the determination and utilization of such information is the characterization of the interacting molecular species. To aid in this characterization, a fluorescent probe molecule has been covalently attached to each of the LH 1 polypeptides. The fluorescent probes were selected for optimal absorption and emission properties in order to facilitate their unique excitation and to enable the detection of energy transfer to Bchl. Oregon Green 488 carboxylic acid and 7-diethylaminocoumarin-3-carboxylic acid seemed to fulfill these requirements. Each of these probes were utilize	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Law	Christopher J
16228574	10.1023/A:1024974111818	Light-induced behavioral responses (;phototaxis') in prokaryotes.	Light-induced sensory responses are among the oldest scientific observations on bacterial behavior. Various types of response have been characterized physiologically in detail. However, the molecular basis of this type of response is only slowly emerging. In many of these systems photosynthetic pigments absorb the light. This then generates a signal via electron transport, feeding into a canonical chemotaxis signal transduction pathway. Nevertheless, several examples have been identified in which dedicated photoreceptor proteins do play a role. The intrinsic complexity of some of these signal transduction systems is overwhelming, in part because of the significant apparent redundancy. The genomics information that is now available for several model organisms (in particular Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Synechocystis sp. PCC6803) facilitates obtaining an increasingly detailed view of the molecular basis of the partial reactions that jointly form the basis of this type of elementary behavi	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Armitage	Judith P
15296184		Stereoselective oxidation of aliphatic diols and reduction of hydroxy-ketones with galactitol dehydrogenase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides D.	From the Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant D a galactitol dehydrogenase (GDH) was isolated and characterized in an earlier investigation (1). The enzyme expressed activity with a wide spread substrate spectrum, like sugars, sugar alcohols, secondary alcohols or the corresponding ketones and it can be used for the production of the rare sugar L-tagatose by regioselective oxidation of galactitol (2). This study focuses on the preparation of optically pure aliphatic diols by oxidation of one enantiomer or stereospecific reduction of keto-alcohols and diketones. The oxidation of 1,2-propanediol, 1,2-butanediol, 1,2-pentanediol and 1,2-hexanediol occurred highly specific with the S-enantiomer leaving the R-enantiomer of the diols in the reaction vessel. Also (S)-1,2,6-hexanetriol was oxidized by GDH to 1,6-dihydroxy-2-hexanone. The Km values of these reactions decreased with increasing length of the carbon chain. Reduction of hydroxyacetone or 1-hydroxy-2-butanone resulted in an excess of 93% 	2004	8	25	Commun Agric Appl Biol Sci	Communications in agricultural and applied biological sciences	Dihydroxydihydrobenzopyrenes; Ketones; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Substrate Specificity; Sugar Alcohol Dehydrogenases	Kohring	G W
14754228	10.1103/PhysRevE.68.061901	Modeling charge transfer in the photosynthetic reaction center.	In this work, we present a model to elucidate the unidirectionality of the primary charge-separation process in the bacterial reaction centers. We have used a model of three sites/molecules with electron transfer beginning at site 1 with an option to proceed to site 2 or site 3. We used a stochastic model with arbitrary correlation functions. We get the quantum yields of electron escape via the sites 2,3 in two limiting cases that correspond to a spectral density of underdamped and overdamped Brownian oscillator. In the fast modulation limit of an overdamped regime we get the effect, which was named "fear of death," in which for strong enough sink parameters the electron has a tendency to avoid the place with greater sink. The presented model was used to provide a plausible explanation of the temperature dependence of the quantum yields of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction center in the high-temperature regime.	2004	6	3	Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys	Physical review. E, Statistical, nonlinear, and soft matter physics	Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Electron Transport; Markov Chains; Models, Chemical; Models, Statistical; Normal Distribution; Oscillometry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Temperature	Pudlak	Michal
14712633	10.1016/S0076-6879(03)70005-6	Purification of Rhodobacter sphaeroides RNA polymerase and its sigma factors.	This article summarized methods to obtain RNA polymerase and sigma factors that can be used to analyze the in vitro control of gene expression by the facultative phototroph R. sphaeroides. While not a topic of this article, these purified components also allow one to analyze R. sphaeroides promoters that use activators to stimulate transcription. We expect that these approaches will be increasingly useful as investigators continue to dissect the number of unusual signal transduction pathways that control gene expression in this and other related species.	2004	2	9	Methods Enzymol	Methods in enzymology	Base Sequence; Biochemistry; Chromatography, Affinity; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Heat-Shock Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Signal Transduction; Sonication; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Anthony	Jennifer R
14691247	10.1073/pnas.2434740100	Structural, dynamic, and energetic aspects of long-range electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Intramolecular electron transfer within proteins plays an essential role in biological energy transduction. Electron donor and acceptor cofactors are bound in the protein matrix at specific locations, and protein-cofactor interactions as well as protein conformational changes can markedly influence the electron transfer rates. To assess these effects, we have investigated charge recombination from the primary quinone acceptor to the special pair bacteriochlorophyll dimer in wild-type reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and four mutants with widely modified free energy gaps. After light-induced charge separation, the recombination kinetics were measured in the light- and dark-adapted forms of the protein from 10 to 300 K. The data were analyzed by using the spin-boson model, which allowed us to self-consistently determine the electronic coupling energy, the distribution of energy gaps, the spectral density of phonons, and the reorganization energy. The analysis revealed slow cha	2004	2	25	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Electron Transport; Energy Metabolism; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Thermodynamics	Kriegl	Jan M
14690421	10.1021/bi035411h	Role of the C-terminal extrinsic region of the alpha polypeptide of the light-harvesting 2 complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: a domain swap study.	The LH1 and LH2 complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides form ring structures of 16 and 9 protomers, respectively, comprising alpha and beta polypeptides, bacteriochlorophylls (Bchl), and carotenoids. Using the LH2 complex as a starting point, two chimeric LH complexes were constructed incorporating the alphaC-terminal domain of either the Rb. sphaeroides LH1 complex or the Rhodospirillum molischianum LH2 complex. The LH1 domain swap produced a new red-shifted component that comprised approximately 30% of the total absorbance. In the LH1alpha C-terminal mutant this new red-shifted species acts as the terminal emitter, with the new emission maximum located 10 nm further to the red than for the WT. Raman spectroscopy indicates that a fraction of the B850 Bchls is involved in relatively weak H-bonds, possibly involving the alphaTrp(+11) residue within the new alphaC-terminus, consistent with a more LH1-like character for one of the Bchls. The CD data indicate that the domain swaps have pertur	2004	5	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Circular Dichroism; Crystallization; Hot Temperature; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptide Fragments; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Subunits; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum; Sequence Deletion; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Olsen	John D
14680695	10.1016/S0378-1097(03)00821-8	Site-directed mutagenesis of NnrR: a transcriptional regulator of nitrite and nitric oxide reductase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NnrR, a transcriptional activator and member of the CRP/FNR family of regulators, is responsible for controlling the expression of a number of denitrification genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3. The apparent effector for NnrR is nitric oxide, and in its presence NnrR activates expression of the nirK gene and the nor operon, encoding nitrite reductase and nitric oxide reductase, respectively. Whether nitric oxide directly interacts with NnrR to activate transcription is unknown. Other denitrifiers carry putative orthologs of NnrR. To gain insight into NnrR function, a number of conserved residues were mutagenized. The impact of these changes on NnrR function was assessed by monitoring expression of a nirK-lacZ fusion. In this way a region spanning from Tyr93 to Cys103 that contains residues critical for NnrR activity was identified.	2004	2	23	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Bacterial Proteins; Environment; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Immunoblotting; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nitrite Reductases; Oxidoreductases; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Threonine; Trans-Activators; Transcription, Genetic; Tyrosine	Laratta	William P
14677704	10.1023/a:1026244909758	Decolorization of azo dyes by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737 decolorized more than 90% of several azo dyes (200 mg dyes l(-1)) in 24 h. The optimal culture conditions were: anaerobic illumination (1990 1x), peptone as carbon source, temperature 35-40 degrees C and pH 7-8. Intracellular crude enzyme from this strain had azoreductase activity, optimized temperature as 45-50 degrees C, and decolorization kinetics which were consistent with a ping-pong mechanism.	2004	8	10	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Azo Compounds; Biodegradation, Environmental; Color; Coloring Agents; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Industrial Waste; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Nitroreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Water Pollutants, Chemical; Water Purification	Song	Zhi-yong
14676323	10.1073/pnas.2432106100	Redox-coupled proton translocation in biological systems: proton shuttling in cytochrome c oxidase.	In the respiratory chain free energy is conserved by linking the chemical reduction of dioxygen to the electrogenic translocation of protons across a membrane. Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) is one of the sites where this linkage occurs. Although intensively studied, the molecular mechanism of proton pumping by this enzyme remains unknown. Here, we present data from an investigation of a mutant CcO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides [Asn-139 --&gt; Asp, ND(I-139)] in which proton pumping is completely uncoupled from the catalytic turnover (i.e., reduction of O2). However, in this mutant CcO, the rate by which O2 is reduced to H2O is even slightly higher than that of the wild-type CcO. The data indicate that the disabling of the proton pump is a result of a perturbation of E(I-286), which is located 20 A from N(I-139) and is an internal proton donor to the catalytic site, located in the membrane-spanning part of CcO. The mutation results in raising the effective pKa of E(I-286) by 1.6 pH units. A	2004	4	20	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Aspartic Acid; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Oxygen Consumption; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Namslauer	Andreas
14663079	10.1099/mic.0.26522-0	Pathways for phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis in bacteria.	Phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the major membrane-forming phospholipid in eukaryotes with important structural and signalling functions. Although many prokaryotes lack PC, it can be found in significant amounts in membranes of rather diverse bacteria. Two pathways for PC biosynthesis are known in bacteria, the methylation pathway and the phosphatidylcholine synthase (PCS) pathway. In the methylation pathway, phosphatidylethanolamine is methylated three times to yield PC, in reactions catalysed by one or several phospholipid N-methyltransferases (PMTs). In the PCS pathway, choline is condensed directly with CDP-diacylglyceride to form PC in a reaction catalysed by PCS. Using cell-free extracts, it was demonstrated that Sinorhizobium meliloti, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Rhizobium leguminosarum, Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Mesorhizobium loti and Legionella pneumophila have both PMT and PCS activities. In addition, Rhodobacter sphaeroides has PMT activity and Brucella melitensis, Pseudomonas ae	2004	2	23	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacteria; Base Sequence; CDPdiacylglycerol-Serine O-Phosphatidyltransferase; DNA, Bacterial; Diacylglycerol Cholinephosphotransferase; Genes, Bacterial; Membrane Lipids; Methylation; Methyltransferases; Open Reading Frames; Phosphatidyl-N-Methylethanolamine N-Methyltransferase; Phosphatidylcholines; Phylogeny	Mart..nez-Morales	Fernando
14662761	10.1074/jbc.M311608200	Effects of oxygen and light intensity on transcriptome expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. Redox active gene expression profile.	The roles of oxygen and light on the regulation of photosynthesis gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 have been well studied over the past 50 years. More recently, the effects of oxygen and light on gene regulation have been shown to involve the interacting redox chains present in R. sphaeroides under diverse growth conditions, and many of the redox carriers comprising these chains have been well studied. However, the expression patterns of those genes encoding these redox carriers, under aerobic and anaerobic photosynthetic growth, have been less well studied. Here, we provide a transcriptional analysis of many of the genes comprising the photosynthesis lifestyle, including genes corresponding to many of the known regulatory elements controlling the response of this organism to oxygen and light. The observed patterns of gene expression are evaluated and discussed in light of our knowledge of the physiology of R. sphaeroides under aerobic and photosynthetic growth conditio	2004	7	6	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Multigene Family; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Roh	Jung Hyeob
14661961	10.1021/bi035603c	Interactions between cytochrome c2 and photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: changes in binding affinity and electron transfer rate due to mutation of interfacial hydrophobic residues are strongly correlated.	The structure of the complex between cytochrome c(2) (cyt) and the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides shows contacts between hydrophobic residues Tyr L162, Leu M191, and Val M192 on the RC and the surface of the cyt [Axelrod et al. (2002) J. Mol. Biol. 319, 501-515]. The role of these hydrophobic residues in binding and electron transfer was investigated by replacing them with Ala and other residues. Mutations of the hydrophobic residues generally resulted in relatively small changes in the second-order electron-transfer rate k(2) (Br..nsted coefficient, alpha( )()= 0.15 +/- 0.05) indicating that the transition state for association occurs before short-range hydrophobic contacts are established. Larger changes in k(2), found in some cases, were attributed to a change in the second-order mechanism from a diffusion controlled regime to a rapidly reversible binding regime. The association constant, K(A), of the cyt and the rate of electron transfer from the b	2004	4	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gong	Xiao-Min
14661117	10.1007/s00253-003-1388-2	Optimization of recombinant aminolevulinate synthase production in Escherichia coli using factorial design.	The production of recombinant Rhodobacter sphaeroides aminolevulinate (ALA) synthase was optimized in two strains of Escherichia coli: the wild-type strain MG1655, and a ptsG mutant AFP111. The effects of initial succinate, glucose and isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) concentrations and the time of induction on enzyme activity were studied. One-way analysis was used to approximate the optimal ranges for these factors, followed by a full factorial design to quantify the effects of each factor and the interactions between the factors. Initial succinate, glucose, and IPTG concentration were observed to be the key factors affecting ALA synthase activity with the optimal levels determined to be above 6 g/l succinate, 0 g/l glucose, and 0.10 mM IPTG. ALA synthase activity was generally lower with AFP111 than with MG1655, and the effect of these three key factors was also lower with AFP111 than with MG1655. Based on the full factorial design results, a fermentation was completed 	2004	3	29	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Biotechnology; Escherichia coli; Factor Analysis, Statistical; Fermentation; Glucose; Models, Statistical; Recombinant Proteins; Succinic Acid	Xie	L
14642912	10.1016/s1567-5394(03)00077-x	Energetics and mechanisms of high efficiency of charge separation and electron transfer processes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	Effects of environmental changes due to D(2)O/H(2)O substitution and cryosolvent addition on the energetics of the special pair and the rate constants of forward and back electron transfer reactions in the picosecond-nanosecond time domain have been studied in isolated reaction centers (RC) of the anaxogenic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The following results were obtained: (i). replacement of H(2)O by D(2)O or addition of either 70% (v/v) glycerol or 35% (v/v) DMSO do not influence the absorption spectra; (ii). in marked contrast to this invariance of absorption, the maxima of fluorescence spectra are red shifted relative to control by 3.5, 6.8 and 14.5 nm for RCs suspended in glycerol, D(2)O or DMSO, respectively; (iii). D(2)O/H(2)O substitution or DMSO addition give rise to an increase of the time constants of charge separation (tau(e)), and Q(A)(-) formation (tau(Q)) by a factors of 2.5-3.1 and 1.7-2.5, respectively; (iv). addition of 70% glycerol is virtually without e	2004	7	20	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Bacteriochlorophylls; Deuterium Oxide; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Electron Transport; Glycerol; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Thermodynamics	Paschenko	Vladimir Z
14640653	10.1021/ja037232t	Spectroscopic studies of the Met182Thr mutant of nitrite reductase: role of the axial ligand in the geometric and electronic structure of blue and green copper sites.	A combination of spectroscopic methods and density functional calculations has been used to describe the electronic structure of the axial mutant (Met182Thr) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides nitrite reductase in which the axial methionine has been changed to a threonine. This mutation results in a dramatic change in the geometric and electronic structure of the copper site. The electronic absorption data imply that the type 1 site in the mutant is like a typical blue copper site in contrast to the wild-type site, which is green. Similar ligand field strength in the mutant and the wild type (from MCD spectra) explains the similar EPR parameters for very different electronic structures. Resonance Raman shows that the Cu-S(Cys) bond is stronger in the mutant relative to the wild type. From a combination of absorption, CD, MCD, and EPR data, the loss of the strong axial thioether (present in the wild-type site) results in an increase of the equatorial thiolate-Cu interaction and the site becomes	2004	1	28	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Bacterial Proteins; Circular Dichroism; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Fungal Proteins; Laccase; Models, Molecular; Nitrite Reductases; Plastocyanin; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Basumallick	Lipika
14630317	10.1016/s0014-5793(03)01149-9	Proton transfer pathways and mechanism in bacterial reaction centers.	The focus of this minireview is to discuss the state of knowledge of the pathways and rates of proton transfer in the bacterial reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Protons involved in the light driven catalytic reduction of a quinone molecule QB to quinol QBH2 travel from the aqueous solution through well defined proton transfer pathways to the oxygen atoms of the quinone. Three main topics are discussed: (1) the pathways for proton transfer involving the residues: His-H126, His-H128, Asp-L210, Asp-M17, Asp-L213, Ser-L223 and Glu-L212, which were determined by a variety of methods including the use of proton uptake inhibiting metal ions (e.g. Zn2+ and Cd2+); (2) the rate constants for proton transfer, obtained from a 'chemical rescue' study was determined to be 2 x 10(5) s(-1) and 2 x 10(4) s(-1) for the proton uptake to Glu-L212 and QB-*, respectively; (3) structural studies of altered proton transfer pathways in revertant RCs that lack the key amino acid Asp-L213 show 	2004	1	5	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paddock	M L
14627811	10.1093/nar/gkg891	Solution structure and DNA binding of the effector domain from the global regulator PrrA (RegA) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: insights into DNA binding specificity.	Prr/RegA response regulator is a global transcription regulator in purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus, and is essential in controlling the metabolic changes between aerobic and anaerobic environments. We report here the structure determination by NMR of the C-terminal effector domain of PrrA, PrrAC. It forms a three-helix bundle containing a helix-turn-helix DNA binding motif. The fold is similar to FIS protein, but the domain architecture is different from previously characterised response regulator effector domains, as it is shorter than any characterised so far. Alignment of Prr/RegA DNA targets permitted a refinement of the consensus sequence, which contains two GCGNC inverted repeats with variable half-site spacings. NMR titrations of PrrAC with specific and non-specific DNA show which surfaces are involved in DNA binding and suggest residues important for binding specificity. A model of the PrrAC/DNA complex was constructed in which two PrrAC molec	2004	6	30	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Consensus Sequence; DNA; DNA-Binding Proteins; Helix-Turn-Helix Motifs; Models, Molecular; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Phosphorylation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Substrate Specificity; Trans-Activators	Laguri	C..dric
14626421	10.1023/a:1026035912038	Production of 5-aminolevulinic acid by an Escherichia coli aminolevulinate dehydratase mutant that overproduces Rhodobacter sphaeroides aminolevulinate synthase.	Two Escherichia coli strains, a wild-type strain and a hemB mutant, which contained the hemA gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides produced aminolevulinate at 4 g l(-1). The hemB mutant did not increase the accumulation of aminolevulinate, an observation attributed to its 50% lower aminolevulinate synthase activity in than the wild-type. Growth was limited for both strains probably due to the accumulation of 0.5 g aminoacetone l(-1).	2004	7	21	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Enzyme Activation; Escherichia coli; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Porphobilinogen Synthase; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Xie	L
14622246	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2003.03845.x	Kinetics of the quinone binding reaction at the QB site of reaction centers from the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides reconstituted in liposomes.	Transmembrane proton translocation in the photosynthetic membranes of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is driven by light and performed by two transmembrane complexes; the photosynthetic reaction center and the ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase complex, coupled by two mobile electron carriers; the cytochrome and the quinone. This paper focuses on the kinetics and thermodynamics of the interaction between the lipophylic electron carrier ubiquinone-10 and the photosynthetic enzyme reconstituted in liposomes. The collected data were simulated with an existing recognized kinetic scheme and the kinetic constants of the uptake (7.2 x 107 M(-1) x s(-1)) and release (40 s(-1)) processes of the ligand were inferred. The results obtained for the quinone release kinetic constant are comparable to the rate of the charge recombination reaction from the state D(+)QA(-). Values for the kinetic constants are discussed as part of the overall photocycle, suggesting that its bottleneck ma	2004	1	5	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Binding Sites; Kinetics; Light; Liposomes; Micelles; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Subunits; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Milano	Francesco
14622014	10.1021/bi035366d	Effects of ionizable residues on the absorption spectrum and initial electron-transfer kinetics in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Effects of ionizable amino acids on spectroscopic properties and electron-transfer kinetics in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are investigated by site-directed mutations designed to alter the electrostatic environment of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer that serves as the photochemical electron donor (P). Arginine residues at homologous positions in the L and M subunits (L135 and M164) are changed independently: Arg L135 is replaced by Lys, Leu, Glu, and Gln and Arg M164 by Leu and Glu. Asp L155 also is mutated to Asn, Tyr L164 to Phe, and Cys L247 to Lys and Asp. The mutations at L155, L164, and M164 have little effect on the absorption spectrum, whereas those at L135 and L247 shift the long-wavelength absorption band of P to higher energies. Fits to the ground-state absorption and hole-burned spectra indicate that the blue shift and increased width of the absorption band in the L135 mutants are due partly to changes in the distribution of energies for	2004	1	6	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Amino Acids; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Thermodynamics	Johnson	E T
14617139	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.03716.x	Targeting of two signal transduction pathways to different regions of the bacterial cell.	Components of bacterial chemosensory pathways which sense via transmembrane receptors have been shown to localize to the cell poles. Many species, however, have operons encoding multiple putative chemosensory pathways, some including putative cytoplasmic receptors. In-genome fusions to single or multiple genes encoding components of two chemosensory pathways in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, cheOp2 and cheOp3, revealed that while sensory transducing proteins associated with transmembrane receptors and encoded on cheOp2 were targeted to the cell poles, the proteins associated with putative cytoplasmic receptors and encoded on cheOp3 were all targeted to a cytoplasmic cluster. No proteins were localized to both sites. These data show that bacteria target components of related pathways to different sites in the cell, presumably preventing direct cross-talk between the different pathways, but allowing a balanced response between extracellular and cytoplasmic signals. It also indicates that there	2004	1	28	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; Luminescent Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Methyltransferases; Microscopy, Electron; Operon; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Wadhams	G H
14609339	10.1021/bi034970l	Correlation of proton release and electrochromic shifts of the optical spectrum due to oxidation of tyrosine in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Reaction centers from the Y(L167) mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, containing a highly oxidizing bacteriochlorophyll dimer and a tyrosine residue substituted at Phe L167, were compared to reaction centers from the Y(M) mutant, with a tyrosine at M164, and a quadruple mutant containing a highly oxidizing dimer but no nearby tyrosine residue. Distinctive features in the light-induced optical and EPR spectra showed that the oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer was reduced by Tyr L167 in the Y(L167) mutant, resulting in a tyrosyl radical, as has been found for Tyr M164 in the Y(M) mutant. In the Y(L167) mutant, the net proton uptake after formation of the tyrosyl radical and the reduced primary quinone ranged from +0.1 to +0.3 H(+)/reaction center between pH 6 and pH 10, with a dependence that is similar to the quadruple mutant but different than the large proton release observed in the Y(M) mutant. In the light-induced absorption spectrum in the 700-1000 nm region, the Y(L167) mutant exhi	2004	3	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electrochemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leucine; Light; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Tyrosine	K..lm..n	L
14609328	10.1021/bi0347407	Water-hydroxide exchange reactions at the catalytic site of heme-copper oxidases.	Membrane-bound heme-copper oxidases catalyze the reduction of O(2) to water. Part of the free energy associated with this process is used to pump protons across the membrane. The O(2) reduction reaction results in formation of high-pK(a) protonatable groups at the catalytic site. The free energy associated with protonation of these groups is used for proton pumping. One of these protonatable groups is OH(-), coordinated to the heme and Cu(B) at the catalytic site. Here we present results from EPR experiments on the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase, which show that at high pH (9) approximately 50% of oxidized heme a(3) is hydroxide-ligated, while at low pH (6.5), no hydroxide is bound to heme a(3). The kinetics of hydroxide binding to heme a(3) were investigated after dissociation of CO from heme a(3) in the enzyme in which the heme a(3)-Cu(B) center was reduced while the remaining redox sites were oxidized. The dissociation of CO results in a decrease of the midpoint potent	2004	3	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Carbon Monoxide; Catalytic Domain; Cattle; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroxides; Ligands; Myocardium; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Photolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Br..nd..n	Magnus
14605796	10.1007/s00203-003-0620-x	Expression of the trxA gene for thioredoxin 1 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides during oxidative stress.	Expression of the thioredoxin ( trxA) gene of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is regulated by oxidative stress at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. All oxidative stress agents tested resulted in a moderate or strong increase of trxA mRNA levels, which was not due to increased mRNA stability. While the kinetics of increased trxA mRNA and of sodB mRNA, encoding superoxide dismutase, were similar after addition of tert-butyl hydroperoxide ( t-BOOH) or hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), different kinetics were observed after addition of diamide or paraquat, indicating the involvement of different stress responses in the regulation of these genes. The level of TrxA did not increase to the same extent as trxA mRNA levels. Furthermore, the addition of H(2)O(2) or t-BOOH led to increased turnover of the protein. Apparently, increased txA transcription compensated, at least in part, for the reduced stability of the protein. A strain expressing lower levels of thioredoxin 1 showed decrease	2004	4	15	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Diamide; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Hydrogen Peroxide; Membrane Proteins; Mutation; Oxidative Stress; Paraquat; Protein Biosynthesis; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxide Dismutase; Thioredoxins; Transcription, Genetic; tert-Butylhydroperoxide	Li	Kuanyu
14596617	10.1021/bi0350351	Membrane protein stability: high pressure effects on the structure and chromophore-binding properties of the light-harvesting complex LH2.	Using the bacteriochlorophyll a (Bchl) cofactors as intrinsic probes to monitor changes in membrane protein structure, we investigate the response to high-pressure of the LH2 complexes from the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 and Rhodopseudomonas acidophila 10050. By FT-Raman spectroscopy, we demonstrate that high pressure does not induce significant distortion of the protein-bound 850 nm-absorbing bacteriochlorophyll molecules, or break of the hydrogen bond they are involved in. This indicates in particular that the oligomerization of the polypeptides is not perturbed up to 0.6 GPa. The pressure-induced changes in the Bchl absorption spectra are attributed to pigment-pigment interactions. In contrast, the loss of 800 nm-absorbing bacteriochlorophyll reflects pressure-induced alterations to the tertiary structure of the protein in proximity to the membrane/cytosol interface. This suggests that the LH2 protein does have two independent structural domains. The first	2004	1	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Pressure; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Thermodynamics	Gall	Andrew
14581468	10.1074/jbc.M310050200	Structural role of PufX in the dimerization of the photosynthetic core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Monomeric and dimeric PufX-containing core complexes have been purified from membranes of wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Reconstitution of both samples by detergent removal in the presence of lipids leads to the formation of two-dimensional crystals constituted of dimeric core complexes. Two-dimensional crystals were further analyzed by cryoelectron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. A projection map at 26-A resolution reveals that core complexes assemble in an "S"-shaped dimeric complex. Each core complex is composed of one reaction center, 12 light-harvesting 1 alpha/beta-heterodimers, and one PufX protein. The light-harvesting 1 assemblies are open with a gap of density of approximately 30-A width and surround oriented reaction centers. A maximum density is found at the dimer junction. Based on the projection map, a model is proposed, in which the two PufX proteins are located at the dimer junction, consistent with the finding of dimerization of monomeric core complexes upo	2004	3	11	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Detergents; Dimerization; Electron Transport Complex III; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipids; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Scheuring	Simon
14568206	10.1016/s0303-2647(03)00109-6	Response kinetics of tethered bacteria to stepwise changes in nutrient concentration.	We examined the changes in swimming behaviour of the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides in response to stepwise changes in a nutrient (propionate), following the pre-stimulus motion, the initial response and the adaptation to the sustained concentration of the chemical. This was carried out by tethering motile cells by their flagella to glass slides and following the rotational behaviour of their cell bodies in response to the nutrient change. Computerised motion analysis was used to analyse the behaviour. Distributions of run and stop times were obtained from rotation data for tethered cells. Exponential and Weibull fits for these distributions, and variability in individual responses are discussed. In terms of parameters derived from the run and stop time distributions, we compare the responses to stepwise changes in the nutrient concentration and the long-term behaviour of 84 cells under 12 propionate concentration levels from 1 nM to 25 mM. We discuss traditional assumptions for the	2004	5	27	Biosystems	Bio Systems	Culture Media; Data Interpretation, Statistical; Flagella; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Movement; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rotation	Chernova	Anna A
14567701	10.1021/bi0350957	Reduction potentials of Rieske clusters: importance of the coupling between oxidation state and histidine protonation state.	Rieske [2Fe-2S] clusters can be classified into two groups, depending on their reduction potentials. Typical high-potential Rieske proteins have pH-dependent reduction potentials between +350 and +150 mV at pH 7, and low-potential Rieske proteins have pH-independent potentials of around -150 mV at pH 7. The pH dependence of the former group is attributed to coupled deprotonation of the two histidine ligands. Protein-film voltammetry has been used to compare three Rieske proteins: the high-potential Rieske proteins from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsRp) and Thermus thermophilus (TtRp) and the low-potential Rieske ferredoxin from Burkholderia sp. strain LB400 (BphF). RsRp and TtRp differ because there is a cluster to serine hydrogen bond in RsRp, which raises its potential by 140 mV. BphF lacks five hydrogen bonds to the cluster and an adjacent disulfide bond. Voltammetry measurements between pH 3 and 14 reveal that all the proteins, including BphF, have pH-dependent reduction potentials wi	2003	12	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport Complex III; Histidine; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Thermodynamics	Zu	Yanbing
14556913	10.1016/j.bbabio.2003.08.008	Acquisition of photosynthetic capacity by a reaction centre that lacks the Q(A) ubiquinone; possible insights into the evolution of reaction centres?	A photosynthetically impaired strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing reaction centres with an alanine to tryptophan mutation at residue 260 of the M-polypeptide (AM260W) was incubated under photosynthetic growth conditions. This incubation produced photosynthetically competent strains containing suppressor mutations that changed residue M260 to glycine or cysteine. Spectroscopic analysis demonstrated that the loss of the Q(A) ubiquinone seen in the original AM260W mutant was reversed in the suppressor mutants. In the mutant where Trp M260 was replaced by Cys, the rate of reduction of the Q(A) ubiquinone by the adjacent (H(A)) bacteriopheophytin was reduced by three-fold. The findings of the experiment are discussed in light of the X-ray crystal structures of the wild-type and AM260W reaction centres, and the possible implications for the evolution of reaction centres as bioenergetic complexes are considered.	2004	1	6	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Crystallography, X-Ray; Evolution, Molecular; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship; Ubiquinone	Wakeham	Marion C
14556912	10.1016/j.bbabio.2003.08.007	Spectroscopic characterization of a semi-stable, charge-separated state in Cu(2+)-substituted reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides exposed to continuous illumination in the presence of an inhibitor of the Q(A)(-) to Q(B) electron transfer, a semi-stable, charge-separated state was formed with halftimes of formation and decay of several minutes. When the non-heme iron was replaced by Cu(2+), the decay of the semi-stable, charge-separated state became much slower than in centers with bound Fe(2+) with about the same rate constant for formation. In Cu(2+)-substituted reaction centers, the semi-stable state was associated with an EPR signal, significantly different from that observed after chemical reduction of the acceptor-side quinone or after illumination at low temperature, but similar to that of an isolated Cu(2+) in the absence of magnetic interaction. The EPR results, obtained with Cu(2+)-substituted reaction centers, suggest that the slow kinetics of formation and decay of the charge-separated, semi-stable state is associated with a structural rearrangement of t	2004	1	6	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Adaptation, Physiological; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Andr..asson	Ulf
14556317	10.1562/0031-8655(2003)078&lt;0290:icotpp&gt;2.0.co;2	Initial characterization of the primary photochemistry of AppA, a blue-light-using flavin adenine dinucleotide-domain containing transcriptional antirepressor protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: a key role for reversible intramolecular proton transfer from the flavin adenine dinucleotide chromophore to a conserved tyrosine?	The flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-containing photoreceptor protein AppA (in which the FAD is bound to a novel so-called BLUF domain) from the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was previously shown to be photoactive by the formation of a slightly redshifted long-lived intermediate that is thought to be the signaling state. In this study, we provide further characterization of the primary photochemistry of this photoreceptor protein using UV-Vis and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, pH measurements and site-directed mutagenesis. Available evidence indicates that the FAD chromophore of AppA may be protonated in the receptor state, and that it becomes exposed to solvent in the signaling state. Furthermore, experimental data lead to the suggestion that intramolecular proton transfer (that may involve [anionic] Tyr-17) forms the basis for the stabilization of the signaling state.	2003	12	11	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Dinucleoside Phosphates; Light; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photochemistry; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Trans-Activators; Tyrosine	Laan	Wouter
14529275	10.1021/bi0350250	Continuum electrostatic model for the binding of cytochrome c2 to the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Electrostatic interactions are important for protein-protein association. In this study, we examined the electrostatic interactions between two proteins, cytochrome c(2) (cyt c(2)) and the reaction center (RC) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, that function in intermolecular electron transfer in photosynthesis. Electrostatic contributions to the binding energy for the cyt c(2)-RC complex were calculated using continuum electrostatic methods based on the recent cocrystal structure [Axelrod, H. L., et al. (2002) J. Mol. Biol. 319, 501-515]. Calculated changes in binding energy due to mutations of charged interface residues agreed with experimental results for a protein dielectric constant epsilon(in) of 10. However, the electrostatic contribution to the binding energy for the complex was close to zero due to unfavorable desolvation energies that compensate for the favorable Coulomb attraction. The electrostatic energy calculated as a function of displacement of t	2004	1	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cytochromes c2; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Miyashita	Osamu
14528294	10.1038/nsb994	Structural and redox plasticity in the heterodimeric periplasmic nitrate reductase.	The structure of the respiratory nitrate reductase (NapAB) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the periplasmic heterodimeric enzyme responsible for the first step in the denitrification process, has been determined at a resolution of 3.2 A. The di-heme electron transfer small subunit NapB binds to the large subunit with heme II in close proximity to the [4Fe-4S] cluster of NapA. A total of 57 residues at the N- and C-terminal extremities of NapB adopt an extended conformation, embracing the NapA subunit and largely contributing to the total area of 5,900 A(2) buried in the complex. Complex formation was studied further by measuring the variation of the redox potentials of all the cofactors upon binding. The marked effects observed are interpreted in light of the three-dimensional structure and depict a plasticity that contributes to an efficient electron transfer in the complex from the heme I of NapB to the molybdenum catalytic site of NapA.	2003	12	24	Nat Struct Biol	Nature structural biology	Dimerization; Kinetics; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasmic Proteins; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Arnoux	Pascal
14526029	10.1128/JB.185.20.6171-6184.2003	A second and unusual pucBA operon of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: genetics and function of the encoded polypeptides.	A new operon (designated the puc2BA operon) displaying a high degree of similarity to the original pucBA genes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 (designated puc1) was identified and studied genetically and biochemically. The puc2B-encoded polypeptide is predicted to exhibit 94% identity with the original beta-apoprotein. The puc2A-encoded polypeptide is predicted to be much larger (263 amino acids) than the 54-amino-acid puc1A-encoded polypeptide. In the first 48 amino acids of the puc2A-encoded polypeptide there is 58% amino acid sequence identity to the original puc1A-encoded polypeptide. We found that puc2BA is expressed, and DNA sequence data suggested that puc2BA is regulated by the PpsR/AppA repressor-antirepressor and FnrL. Employing genetic and biochemical approaches, we obtained evidence that the puc2B-encoded polypeptide is able to enter into LH2 complex formation, but neither the full-length puc2A-encoded polypeptide nor its N-terminal 48-amino-acid derivative is able to ente	2003	10	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Apoproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Operon; Peptides; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Biosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Transcription, Genetic	Zeng	Xiaohua
14507738	10.1016/S0006-3495(03)74698-0	Residual water modulates QA- -to-QB electron transfer in bacterial reaction centers embedded in trehalose amorphous matrices.	The role of protein dynamics in the electron transfer from the reduced primary quinone, Q(A)(-), to the secondary quinone, Q(B), was studied at room temperature in isolated reaction centers (RC) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by incorporating the protein in trehalose water systems of different trehalose/water ratios. The effects of dehydration on the reaction kinetics were examined by analyzing charge recombination after different regimes of RC photoexcitation (single laser pulse, double flash, and continuous light) as well as by monitoring flash-induced electrochromic effects in the near infrared spectral region. Independent approaches show that dehydration of RC-containing matrices causes reversible, inhomogeneous inhibition of Q(A)(-)-to-Q(B) electron transfer, involving two subpopulations of RCs. In one of these populations (i.e., active), the electron transfer to Q(B) is slowed but still successfully competing with P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination, even in the 	2004	6	8	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Desiccation; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose; Water	Francia	Francesco
12974637	10.1021/bi034747o	Manganese oxidation by modified reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The transfer of an electron from exogenous manganese (II) ions to the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P, of bacterial reaction centers was characterized for a series of mutants that have P/P(+) midpoint potentials ranging from 585 to 765 mV compared to 505 mV for wild type. Light-induced changes in optical and EPR spectra of the mutants were measured to monitor the disappearance of the oxidized dimer upon electron donation by manganese in the presence of bicarbonate. The extent of electron transfer was strongly dependent upon the P/P(+) midpoint potential. The midpoint potential of the Mn(2+)/Mn(3+) couple was calculated to decrease linearly from 751 to 623 mV as the pH was raised from 8 to 10, indicating the involvement of a proton. The electron donation had a second order rate constant of approximately 9 x 10(4) M(-1) s(-1), determined from the linear increase in rate for Mn(2+) concentrations up to 200 microM. Weak dissociation constants of 100-200 microM were found. Quantitative EPR ana	2003	10	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bicarbonates; Calcium; Detergents; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Manganese; Models, Biological; Oxygen; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium; Spectrophotometry; Thermodynamics	K..lm..n	L
12952882	10.1101/gr.1128803	Whole-genome shotgun optical mapping of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 and its use for whole-genome shotgun sequence assembly.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is a facultative photoheterotrophic bacterium with tremendous metabolic diversity, which has significantly contributed to our understanding of the molecular genetics of photosynthesis, photoheterotrophy, nitrogen fixation, hydrogen metabolism, carbon dioxide fixation, taxis, and tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. To further understand this remarkable bacterium, and to accelerate an ongoing sequencing project, two whole-genome restriction maps (EcoRI and HindIII) of R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 were constructed using shotgun optical mapping. The approach directly mapped genomic DNA by the random mapping of single molecules. The two maps were used to facilitate sequence assembly by providing an optical scaffold for high-resolution alignment and verification of sequence contigs. Our results show that such maps facilitated the closure of sequence gaps by the early detection of nascent sequence contigs during the course of the whole-genome shotgun sequencing process.	2003	10	20	Genome Res	Genome research	Chromosomes, Bacterial; Contig Mapping; Genetic Markers; Genome, Bacterial; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Optics and Photonics; Restriction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity	Zhou	Shiguo
12945578	10.1562/0031-8655(2003)078&lt;0114:iaivie&gt;2.0.co;2	Inter- and intraspecific variation in excited-state triplet energy transfer rates in reaction centers of photosynthetic bacteria.	In protein-cofactor reaction center (RC) complexes of purple photosynthetic bacteria, the major role of the bound carotenoid (C) is to quench the triplet state formed on the primary electron donor (P) before its sensitization of the excited singlet state of molecular oxygen from its ground triplet state. This triplet energy is transferred from P to C via the bacteriochlorophyll monomer B(B). Using time-resolved electron paramagnetic resonance (TREPR), we have examined the temperature dependence of the rates of this triplet energy transfer reaction in the RC of three wild-type species of purple nonsulfur bacteria. Species-specific differences in the rate of transfer were observed. Wild-type Rhodobacter capsulatus RCs were less efficient at the triplet transfer reaction than Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs, but were more efficient than Rhodospirillum rubrum RCs. In addition, RCs from three mutant strains of R. capsulatus carrying substitutions of amino acids near P and B(B) were examined. Tw	2003	12	2	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter; Species Specificity	Laible	Philip D
12944298	10.1016/S0006-3495(03)74613-X	Charge recombination and protein dynamics in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers entrapped in a sol-gel matrix.	Many proteins can be immobilized in silica hydrogel matrices without compromising their function, making this a suitable technique for biosensor applications. Immobilization will in general affect protein structure and dynamics. To study these effects, we have measured the P(+)Q(A)(-) charge recombination kinetics after laser excitation of Q(B)-depleted wild-type photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in a tetramethoxysilane (TMOS) sol-gel matrix and, for comparison, also in cryosolvent. The nonexponential electron transfer kinetics observed between 10 and 300 K were analyzed quantitatively using the spin boson model for the intrinsic temperature dependence of the electron transfer and an adiabatic change of the energy gap and electronic coupling caused by protein motions in response to the altered charge distributions. The analysis reveals similarities and differences in the TMOS-matrix and bulk-solvent samples. In both preparations, electron transfer is coupled 	2004	5	5	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Electrons; Hydrogel, Polyethylene Glycol Dimethacrylate; Kinetics; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Theoretical; Phase Transition; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Proteins; Recombination, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Silanes; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Time Factors	Kriegl	Jan M
12943503	10.1023/a:1024637806905	Electron transfer in deuterated reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 90 K according to femtosecond spectroscopy data.	The primary act of charge separation was studied in P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) states (P, primary electron donor; B(A) and H(A), primary and secondary electron acceptor) of native reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 using femtosecond absorption spectroscopy at low (90 K) and room temperature. Coherent oscillations were studied in the kinetics of the stimulated emission band of P* (935 nm), of absorption band of B(A)(-) (1020 nm) and of absorption band of H(A) (760 nm). It was found that in native RCs kept in heavy water (D(2)O) buffer the isotopic decreasing of basic oscillation frequency 32 cm(-1) and its overtones takes place by the same factor approximately 1.3 in the 935, 1020, and 760 nm bands in comparison with the samples in ordinary water H2O. This suggests that the femtosecond oscillations in RC kinetics with 32 cm(-1) frequency may be caused by rotation of hydrogen-containing groups, in particular the water molecule which may be placed between primary elec	2004	4	22	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Deuterium Oxide; Electron Transport; Fourier Analysis; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature; Water	Yakovlev	A G
12923105	10.1128/JB.185.17.5295-5300.2003	Purification and characterization of the flagellar basal body of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Flagellar hook-basal body (HBB) complexes were purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The HBB was more acid labile but more heat stable than that of Salmonella species, and protein identification revealed that HBB components were expressed only from one of the two sets of flagellar gene clusters on the R. sphaeroides genome, under the heterotrophic growth conditions tested here.	2003	9	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Microscopy, Electron; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kobayashi	K
12919324	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2003.03746.x	Does different orientation of the methoxy groups of ubiquinone-10 in the reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cause different binding at QA and QB?	The different roles of ubiquinone-10 (UQ10) at the primary and secondary quinone (QA and QB) binding sites of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 reaction centres are governed by the protein microenvironment. The 4C=O carbonyl group of QA is unusually strongly hydrogen-bonded, in contrast to QB. This asymmetric binding seems to determine their different functions. The asymmetric hydrogen-bonding at QA can be caused intrinsically by distortion of the methoxy groups or extrinsically by binding to specific amino-acid side groups. Different X-ray-based structural models show contradictory orientations of the methoxy groups and do not provide a clear picture. To elucidate if distortion of the methoxy groups induces this hydrogen-bonding, their (ring-)C-O vibrations were assigned by use of site-specifically labelled [5-13C]UQ10 and [6-13C]UQ10 reconstituted at either the QA or the QB binding site. Two infrared bands at 1288 cm(-1) and 1264 cm(-1) were assigned to the methoxy vibrations. They did not	2003	10	14	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Binding Sites; Carbon Isotopes; Ferrous Compounds; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Structure-Activity Relationship; Ubiquinone	Remy	Andr..
12911304	10.1021/bi0346648	Mechanism of proton transfer inhibition by Cd(2+) binding to bacterial reaction centers: determination of the pK(A) of functionally important histidine residues.	The bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC) uses light energy to catalyze the reduction of a bound quinone molecule Q(B) to quinol Q(B)H(2). In RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides the protons involved in this process come from the cytoplasm and travel through pathways that involve His-H126 and His-H128 located near the proton entry point. In this study, we measured the pH dependence from 4.5 to 8.5 of the binding of the proton transfer inhibitor Cd(2+), which ligates to these surface His in the RC and inhibits proton-coupled electron transfer. At pH &lt;6, the negative slope of the logarithm of the dissociation constant, K(D), versus pH approaches 2, indicating that, upon binding of Cd(2+), two protons are displaced; i.e., the binding is electrostatically compensated. At pH &gt;7, K(D) becomes essentially independent of pH. A theoretical fit to the data over the entire pH range required two protons with pK(A) values of 6.8 and 6.3 (+/-0.5). To assess the contribution of His-H126 and	2003	10	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Aspartic Acid; Binding Sites; Cadmium; Electron Transport; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protons; Quinones; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paddock	M L
12907296	10.1016/s0005-2728(03)00079-3	Redox-driven proton pumping by heme-copper oxidases.	One of the key problems of molecular bioenergetics is the understanding of the function of redox-driven proton pumps on a molecular level. One such class of proton pumps are the heme-copper oxidases. These enzymes are integral membrane proteins in which proton translocation across the membrane is driven by electron transfer from a low-potential donor, such as, e.g. cytochrome c, to a high-potential acceptor, O(2). Proton pumping is associated with distinct exergonic reaction steps that involve gradual reduction of oxygen to water. During the process of O(2) reduction, unprotonated high pK(a) proton acceptors are created at the catalytic site. Initially, these proton acceptors become protonated as a result of intramolecular proton transfer from a residue(s) located in the membrane-spanning part of the enzyme, but removed from the catalytic site. This residue is then reprotonated from the bulk solution. In cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the proton is initially transfe	2003	10	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Brzezinski	Peter
12899837	10.1016/s0022-2836(03)00751-4	Lipidic cubic phase crystal structure of the photosynthetic reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 2.35A resolution.	Well-ordered crystals of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were grown from a lipidic cubic phase. Here, we report the type I crystal packing that results from this crystallisation medium, for which 3D crystals grow as stacked 2D crystals, and the reaction centre X-ray structure is refined to 2.35A resolution. In this crystal form, the location of the membrane bilayer could be assigned with confidence. A cardiolipin-binding site is found at the protein-protein interface within the membrane-spanning region, shedding light on the formation of crystal contacts within the membrane. A chloride-binding site was identified in the membrane-spanning region, which suggests a putative site for interaction with the light-harvesting complex I, the cytochrome bc(1) complex or PufX. Comparisons with the X-ray structures of this reaction centre deriving from detergent-based crystals are drawn, indicating that a slight compression occurs in this lipid-rich environ	2003	9	3	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Binding Sites; Cardiolipins; Chlorides; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Detergents; Lipid Bilayers; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Katona	Gergely
12896984	10.1128/JB.185.16.4667-4671.2003	Polar localization of CheA2 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides requires specific Che homologs.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a motile bacterium that has multiple chemotaxis genes organized predominantly in three major operons (cheOp(1), cheOp(2), and cheOp(3)). The chemoreceptor proteins are clustered at two distinct locations, the cell poles and in one or more cytoplasmic clusters. One intriguing possibility is that the physically distinct chemoreceptor clusters are each composed of a defined subset of specific chemotaxis proteins, including the chemoreceptors themselves plus specific CheW and CheA proteins. Here we report the subcellular localization of one such protein, CheA(2), under aerobic and photoheterotrophic growth conditions. CheA(2) is predominantly clustered and localized at the cell poles under both growth conditions. Furthermore, its localization is dependent upon one or more genes in cheOp(2) but not those of cheOp(1) or cheOp(3). In E. coli, the polar localization of CheA depends upon CheW. The R. sphaeroides cheOp(2) contains two cheW genes. Interestingly, CheW(2)	2003	9	16	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Polarity; Chemotaxis; Culture Media; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Martin	Angela C
12885224	10.1021/bi0346650	Effects of photosynthetic reaction center H protein domain mutations on photosynthetic properties and reaction center assembly in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Purple bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC) H proteins comprise three cellular domains: an 11 amino acid N-terminal sequence on the periplasmic side of the inner membrane; a single transmembrane alpha-helix; and a large C-terminal, globular cytoplasmic domain. We studied the roles of these domains in Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC function and assembly, using a mutagenesis approach that included domain swapping with Blastochloris viridis RC H segments and a periplasmic domain deletion. All mutations that affected photosynthesis reduced the amount of the RC complex. The RC H periplasmic domain is shown to be involved in the accumulation of the RC H protein in the cell membrane, while the transmembrane domain has an additional role in RC complex assembly, perhaps through interactions with RC M. The RC H cytoplasmic domain also functions in RC complex assembly. There is a correlation between the amounts of membrane-associated RC H and RC L, whereas RC M is found in the cell membrane 	2003	11	6	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plasmids; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Solubility; Spectrophotometry; Subcellular Fractions	Tehrani	Ali
12882636	10.1023/a:1023955626158	Femtosecond nuclear oscillations under charge separation in reaction centers of photosynthesis.	Results are presented of a study of primary processes of formation of the charge separated states P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) (where P is the primary electron donor, B(A) and H(A) the primary and secondary electron acceptors) in native and pheophytin-modified reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 by methods of femtosecond spectroscopy of absorption changes at low temperature. Coherent oscillations were studied in the kinetics at 935 nm (P* stimulated emission band), at 1020 nm (B(A)(-) absorption band), and at 760 nm (H(A) absorption band). It was found that when the wavepacket created under femtosecond light excitation approaches the intersection between P* and P(+)B(A)(-) potential surfaces at 120- and 380-fsec delays, the formation of two electron states emitting light at 935 nm (P*) and absorbing light at 1020 nm (P(+)B(A)(-)) takes place. At the later time the wavepacket motion has a frequency of 32 cm(-1) and is accompanied by electron transfer from P* to B(A) in	2004	2	6	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Yakovlev	A G
12874282	10.1074/jbc.M305913200	Exploration of ligands to the Qi site semiquinone in the bc1 complex using high-resolution EPR.	Pulsed EPR spectroscopy was used to explore the structural neighborhood of the semiquinone (SQ) stabilized at the Qi site of the bc1 complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (EC 1.10.2.2) and to demonstrate that the nitrogen atom of a histidine imidazole group donates an H-bond to the SQ. Crystallographic structures show two different configurations for the binding of ubiquinone at the Qi site of mitochondrial bc1 complexes in which histidine (His-201 in bovine sequence) is either a direct H-bond donor or separated by a bridging water. The paramagnetic properties of the SQ formed at the site provide an independent method for studying the liganding of this intermediate species. The antimycin-sensitive SQ formed at the Qi site by either equilibrium redox titration, reduction of the oxidized complex by ascorbate, or addition of decylubihydroquinone to the oxidized complex in the presence of myxothiazol all showed similar properties. The electron spin echo envelope modulation spectra in the 14N 	2003	12	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Binding Sites; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen Bonding; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kolling	Derrick R J
12866895	10.1039/b212917e	Development of dimethyl sulfoxide biosensor using a mediator immobilized enzyme electrode.	A mediator immobilized dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) sensor using DMSO reductase (DMSO-R) was constructed. Methyl viologen (MV) was used as a mediator and immobilized on a glassy carbon (GC) electrode with Nafion polymer. DMSO-R from Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans was retained by a dialysis film on the modified GC electrode. The amperometric signal in response to DMSO was observed. The linear range of the calibration curve for DMSO was between 0 and 600 microM. The response time was within 100 s and the relative standard deviation was 4% at 200 microM DMSO (n = 4). To eliminate the background noise derived from oxygen in samples, the glucose oxidase-catalase retained DMSO sensor was also examined.	2003	10	7	Analyst	The Analyst	Biosensing Techniques; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Electrodes; Enzymes	Cheng	Hsu-chih
12839764	10.1128/AEM.69.7.3938-3944.2003	Use of a green fluorescent protein-based reporter fusion for detection of nitric oxide produced by denitrifiers.	To determine if green fluorescent protein could be used as a reporter for detecting nitric oxide production, gfp was fused to nnrS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3. nnrS was chosen because its expression requires nitric oxide. The presence of the fusion in R. sphaeroides 2.4.3 resulted in a significant increase in fluorescent intensity of the cells, but only when nitrite reductase was active. Cells lacking nitrite reductase activity and consequently the ability to generate nitric oxide were only weakly fluorescent when grown under denitrification-inducing conditions. One of the R. sphaeroides strains unable to generate nitric oxide endogenously was used as a reporter to detect exogenously produced nitric oxide. Incubation of this strain with sodium nitroprusside, a nitric oxide generator, significantly increased its fluorescence intensity. Mixing of known denitrifiers with the reporter strain also led to significant increases in fluorescence intensity, although the level varied depen	2003	10	30	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Betaproteobacteria; DNA, Ribosomal; Genes, Reporter; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Luminescent Proteins; Nitric Oxide; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Soil Microbiology; Trans-Activators	Yin	Shixue
12831456	10.1179/096805103125001559	Identification of meningococcal LPS as a major monocyte activator in IL-10 depleted shock plasmas and CSF by blocking the CD14-TLR4 receptor complex.	We have examined the in vitro stimulatory effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-containing samples (meningococcal shock plasma, n = 10; non-shock plasma, n = 10; cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), n = 7) before and after immunodepletion of interleukin (IL)-10 in a monocyte target assay. We also studied the stimulatory effects of plasma collected from 3 patients with lethal septicemia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae without detectable LPS but with 100-fold increased levels of heat-shock protein 70 (HSP70). HSP70 may, like LPS, activate monocytes via the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). The samples were analyzed for LPS, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-10 and HSP70; applied on human monocytes (purity &gt; 95%) before and after IL-10 immunodepletion, in the absence or presence of CD14 blocking mAb (60bca) or the lipid A antagonist, Rhodobacter sphaeroides diphosphoryl lipid A (RsDPLA) which blocks TLR4. Monocyte activation was measured by increased TNF-alpha secretion and tissue factor (TF) up	2004	1	6	J Endotoxin Res	Journal of endotoxin research	Adolescent; Adult; Antibodies, Blocking; Child; Child, Preschool; HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins; Humans; Infant; Interleukin-10; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophage Activation; Membrane Glycoproteins; Meningococcal Infections; Middle Aged; Monocytes; Neisseria meningitidis; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Receptors, Cell Surface; Sepsis; Shock, Septic; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Toll-Like Receptors; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Bjerre	Anna
12829696	10.1074/jbc.M305461200	The modified Q-cycle explains the apparent mismatch between the kinetics of reduction of cytochromes c1 and bH in the bc1 complex.	Crystallographic structures of the bc1 complex from different sources have provided evidence that a movement of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) extrinsic domain is essential for catalysis. This dynamic feature has opened up the question of what limits electron transfer, and several authors have suggested that movement of the ISP head, or gating of such movement, is rate-limiting. Measurements of the kinetics of cytochromes and of the electrochromic shift of carotenoids, following flash activation through the reaction center in chromatophore membranes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, have allowed us to demonstrate that: (i) ubiquinol oxidation at the Qo-site of the bc1 complex has the same rate in the absence or presence of antimycin bound at the Qi-site, and is the reaction limiting turnover. (ii) Activation energies for transient processes to which movement of the ISP must contribute are much lower than that of the rate-limiting step. (iii) Comparison of experimental data with a sim	2003	11	20	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Antifungal Agents; Antimycin A; Catalysis; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes b; Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Kinetics; Methacrylates; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Models, Theoretical; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Thiazoles; Time Factors	Crofts	Antony R
12815856		[Possible effect of structural phase transition in the reactive center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides on the rate of dark adaptation of photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll from primary quinone].	The dependence of the rate of dark recombination between the photooxidized primary donor--dimer bacteriochlorophyll molecule (P) and reduced primary quinone acceptor (QA), P+QA(-)--&gt;PQA was studied in photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the temperature range of 100-320 K. Control RC preparations, RC species with the removed H-subunit as well as RC samples with the hydrogen bonds network modified by isotopic D2O-H2O substitution were investigated. An anomalous temperature dependence of the recombination time (tau rec) of dark reaction P+QA(-)--&gt;PQA was found for all RC samples. It was found that upon heating from 120 to 290 K tau rec increased 2.5 fold. However, upon further heating to 320 K, tau rec decreased again. The temperature dependences of the P+QA(-)--&gt;PQA recombination time were compared with those of the thermodepolarization current of RC preparations in the same temperature range. The temperature curve of the thermodepolarization cur	2003	8	25	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacteriochlorophylls; Oxidation-Reduction; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gorokhov	V V
12809496	10.1021/bi0341307	A role for subunit III in proton uptake into the D pathway and a possible proton exit pathway in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase.	Protons are transferred from the inner surface of cytochrome c oxidase to the active site by the D and K pathways, as well as from the D pathway to the outer surface by a largely undefined proton exit route. Alteration of the initial proton acceptor of the D pathway, D132, to alanine has previously been shown to greatly inhibit oxidase turnover and slow proton uptake into the D pathway. Here it is shown that the removal of subunit III restores a substantial rate of O(2) reduction to D132A. Presumably an alternative proton acceptor for the D pathway becomes active in the absence of subunit III and D132. Thus, in the absence of subunit III cytochrome oxidase shows greater flexibility in terms of proton entry into the D pathway. In the presence of DeltaPsi and DeltapH, turnover of the wild-type oxidase or D132A is slower in the absence of subunit III. Comparison of the turnover rates of subunit III-depleted wild-type oxidase to those of the zinc-inhibited wild-type oxidase containing subu	2003	7	31	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Inhibitors; Fatty Acids, Unsaturated; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Phospholipids; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Zinc	Mills	Denise A
12809495	10.1021/bi0341298	Subunit III of cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is required to maintain rapid proton uptake through the D pathway at physiologic pH.	The catalytic core of cytochrome c oxidase is composed of three subunits where subunits I and II contain all of the redox-active metal centers and subunit III is a seven transmembrane helix protein that binds to subunit I. The N-terminal region of subunit III is adjacent to D132 of subunit I, the initial proton acceptor of the D pathway that transfers protons from the protein surface to the buried active site approximately 30 A distant. The absence of subunit III only slightly alters the initial steady-state activity of the oxidase at pH 6.5, but activity declines sharply with increasing pH, yielding an apparent pK(a) of 7.2 for steady-state O(2) reduction. When subunit III is present, cytochrome oxidase is more active at higher pH, and the apparent pK(a) of steady-state O(2) reduction is 8.5. Single-turnover experiments show that proton uptake through the D pathway at pH 8 slows from &gt;10000 s(-1) in the presence of subunit III to 350 s(-1) in its absence. At low pH (5.5) the D path	2003	7	31	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Carbon Monoxide; Catalysis; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Photolysis; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gilderson	Gwen
12804774	10.1016/s0014-5793(03)00532-5	Proton release upon oxidation of tyrosine in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Markedly different light-induced protonational changes were measured in two reaction center mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. A quadruple mutant containing alterations, at residues L131, M160, M197, and M210, that elevate the midpoint potential of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer was compared to the Y(M) mutant, which contains these alterations plus a tyrosine at M164 serving as a secondary electron donor [K..lm..n et al., Nature 402 (1999) 696]. In the quadruple mutant, a proton uptake of 0.1-0.3 H(+)/reaction center between pH 6 and 10 resulted from formation of the oxidized bacteriochlorophyll donor and reduced primary quinone. In the Y(M) mutant, a maximal proton release of -0.5 H(+)/reaction center at pH 8 was attributed to formation of the tyrosyl radical and modeled using electrostatic and direct proton-releasing mechanisms.	2003	7	25	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Tyrosine	K..lm..n	L
12795622	10.1021/bi0268293	Influence of carotenoid molecules on the structure of the bacteriochlorophyll binding site in peripheral light-harvesting proteins from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the LH2 proteins from Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides, the hydrogen bonds between the bacteriochlorophyll (Bchl) molecules and their proteic binding sites exhibit a strong variance with respect to carotenoid content and type. In the absence of the carotenoid molecule, such as in the LH2 from Rb. sphaeroides R26.1, the void in the protein structure induces a significant reorganization of the binding site of both Bchl molecules responsible for the 850 nm absorption, which is not observed when the 800 nm absorbing Bchl is selectively removed from these complexes. FT Raman spectra of LH2 complexes from Rb. sphaeroides show that the strength of the hydrogen bond between the 850 nm absorbing Bchl bound to the alpha polypeptide and the tyrosine alpha(45) depends precisely on the chemical nature of the bound carotenoid. These results suggest that the variable extremity of the carotenoid is embedded in these LH2 complexes, lying close to the interacting Bchl molecules. In the LH2 from Rhodopse	2003	7	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Carotenoids; Fourier Analysis; Hydrogen Bonding; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillaceae; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Gall	Andrew
12779327	10.1021/bi030055o	Spectroscopic and mutational analysis of the blue-light photoreceptor AppA: a novel photocycle involving flavin stacking with an aromatic amino acid.	The flavoprotein AppA is a blue-light photoreceptor that functions as an antirepressor of photosynthesis gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Heterologous expression studies show that FAD binds to a 156 amino acid N-terminal domain of AppA and that this domain is itself photoactive. A pulse of white light causes FAD absorption to be red shifted in a biphasic process with a fast phase occurring in &lt;1 micros and a slow phase occurring at approximately 5 ms. The absorbance shift was spontaneously restored over a 30 min period, also in a biphasic process as assayed by fluorescence quenching and electronic absorption analyses. Site-directed replacement of Tyr21 with Leu or Phe abolished the photochemical reaction implicating involvement of Tyr21 in the photocycle. Nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of wild-type and mutant proteins also indicates that Tyr21 forms pi-pi stacking interactions with the isoalloxazine ring of FAD. We propose that photochemical exci	2003	7	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Circular Dichroism; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Fluorescence; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photochemistry; Photolysis; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Tyrosine	Kraft	Brian J
12749836	10.1016/s0147-619x(03)00014-3	Nucleotide sequence based characterizations of two cryptic plasmids from the marine bacterium Ruegeria isolate PR1b.	Two plasmids, 76 and 148 kb in size, isolated from Ruegeria strain PR1b were entirely sequenced. These are the first plasmids to be characterized from this genus of marine bacteria. Sequence analysis revealed a biased distribution of function among the putative proteins encoded on the two plasmids. The smaller plasmid, designated pSD20, encodes a large number of putative proteins involved in polysaccharide biosynthesis and export. The larger plasmid, designated pSD25, primarily encodes putative proteins involved in the transport of small molecules and in DNA mobilization. Sequence analysis revealed uncommon potential replication systems on both plasmids. pSD25, the first repABC-type replicon isolated from the marine environment, actually contains two repABC-type replicons. pSD20 contains a complex replication region, including a replication origin and initiation protein similar to iteron-containing plasmids (such as pSW500 from the plant pathogen Erwinia stewartii) linked to putative R	2004	1	14	Plasmid	Plasmid	ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters; DNA; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Erwinia; Plasmids; Polysaccharides; Recombination, Genetic; Replication Origin; Replicon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodobacteraceae	Zhong	Zhenping
12741840	10.1021/bi034240d	Quinone (Q(B)) binding site and protein stuctural changes in photosynthetic reaction center mutants at Pro-L209 revealed by vibrational spectroscopy.	The effect of substituting Pro-L209 with Tyr, Phe, Glu, and Thr in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated by monitoring the light-induced FTIR absorption changes associated with the photoreduction of the secondary quinone Q(B). Pro-L209 is close to a chain of ordered water molecules connecting Q(B) to the bulk phase. In wild-type RCs, two distinct main Q(B) binding sites (distal and proximal to the non-heme iron) have been described in the literature. The X-ray structures of the mutant RCs Pro-L209 --&gt; Tyr, Pro-L209 --&gt; Phe, and Pro-L209 --&gt; Glu have revealed that Q(B) occupies a proximal, intermediate, and distal position, respectively [Kuglstatter, A., Ermler, U., Michel, H., Baciou, L., and Fritzsch, G. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 4253-4260]. FTIR absorption changes associated with the reduction of Q(B) in Pro-L209 --&gt; Phe RCs reconstituted with (13)C-labeled ubiquinone show a highly specific IR fingerprint for the C=O and C=C mod	2003	6	20	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Nabedryk	Eliane
12741125	10.1023/a:1022548227295	The influence of structural phase transition on the temperature dependence of the rate of charge recombination P+QA(-)--&gt;PQA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	NA	2004	1	6	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Bacteriochlorophylls; Benzoquinones; Computer Simulation; Darkness; Light; Macromolecular Substances; Models, Biological; Phase Transition; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Gorokhov	V V
12730164	10.1128/JB.185.10.3049-3059.2003	Synthesis of catalytically active form III ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase in archaea.	Ribulose 1,5 bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) catalyzes the biological reduction and assimilation of carbon dioxide gas to organic carbon; it is the key enzyme responsible for the bulk of organic matter found on earth. Until recently it was believed that there are only two forms of RubisCO, form I and form II. However, the recent completion of several genome-sequencing projects uncovered open reading frames resembling RubisCO in the third domain of life, the archaea. Previous work and homology comparisons suggest that these enzymes represent a third form of RubisCO, form III. While earlier work indicated that two structurally distinct recombinant archaeal RubisCO proteins catalyzed bona fide RubisCO reactions, it was not established that the rbcL genes of anaerobic archaea can be transcribed and translated to an active enzyme in the native organisms. In this report, it is shown not only that Methanococcus jannaschii, Archaeoglobus fulgidus, Methanosarcina acetivorans, and M	2003	6	16	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Archaea; Archaeal Proteins; Blotting, Western; Carbon Dioxide; Catalysis; Cell Division; Enzyme Activation; Gene Deletion; Genetic Complementation Test; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Finn	Michael W
12719425	10.1074/jbc.M302753200	A reaction center-light-harvesting 1 complex (RC-LH1) from a Rhodospirillum rubrum mutant with altered esterifying pigments: characterization by optical spectroscopy and cryo-electron microscopy.	Introduction of the bchP gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides encoding geranylgeranyl reductase into Rhodospirillum rubrum alters the esterification of the bacteriochlorophylls so that phytol is used instead of geranylgeraniol. The resulting transconjugant strain of Rs. rubrum grows photosynthetically, showing that phytolated Bchla can substitute for the native pigment in both the reaction center (RC) and the light-harvesting 1 (LH1) complexes. This genetic manipulation perturbs the native carotenoid biosynthetic pathway; several biosynthetic intermediates are assembled into the core complex and are capable of energy transfer to the bacteriochlorophylls. RC-LH1 complexes containing phytolated Bchla were analyzed by low temperature absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy and circular dichroism. These show that phytolated Bchls can assemble in vivo into the photosynthetic apparatus of Rs. rubrum and that the newly introduced phytol tail provokes small perturbations to the Bchls within thei	2003	8	20	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cell Membrane; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Crystallization; Esterification; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Structure-Activity Relationship	Qian	Pu
12719253	10.1016/S0006-3495(03)70048-4	Energy trapping and detrapping in reaction center mutants from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Time-resolved fluorescence of chromatophores isolated from strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing light harvesting complex I (LHI) and reaction center (RC) (no light harvesting complex II) was measured at several temperatures between 295 K and 10 K. Measurements were performed to investigate energy trapping from LHI to the RC in RC mutants that have a P/P(+) midpoint potential either above or below wild-type (WT). Six different strains were investigated: WT + LHI, four mutants with altered RC P/P(+) midpoint potentials, and an LHI-only strain. In the mutants with the highest P/P(+) midpoint potentials, the electron transfer rate decreases significantly, and at low temperatures it is possible to directly observe energy transfer from LHI to the RC by detecting the fluorescence kinetics from both complexes. In all mutants, fluorescence kinetics are multiexponential. To explain this, RC + LHI fluorescence kinetics were analyzed using target analysis in which specific kinetic models 	2004	1	6	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Cell Membrane; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Recombinant Proteins; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Temperature	Katiliene	Zivile
12706586	10.1016/s0956-5663(03)00043-5	Amperometric dimethyl sulfoxide sensor using dimethyl sulfoxide reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	An amperometric dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) sensor was constructed based on DMSO reductase (DMSO-R). DMSO-R from Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans was immobilized by BSA-glutaraldehyde cross-linking at the surface of a glassy carbon electrode. Mediators were added to the sample solution in a free form. Several mediators (methyl viologen (MV), benzyl viologen (BV), neutral red (NR), safranin T (ST), FMN, phenazine methosulfate (PMS)), which can donate electrons to DMSO-R, were examined with the DMSO-R immobilized electrode. Among them MV was selected as a model mediator because of its wide linear response range and fast response time. The response current was effected by the measurement temperature but hardly effected by the pH of the sample solution. The response current was increased with the measurement temperature up to 50 degrees C. A response current was observed at 1 microM DMSO and the response time was 20 s under the optimum conditions. The response was observed for ap	2004	4	13	Biosens Bioelectron	Biosensors &amp; bioelectronics	Biosensing Techniques; Coenzymes; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Electrochemistry; Enzymes, Immobilized; Equipment Design; Equipment Failure Analysis; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Abo	Mitsuru
12706568	10.1016/s0956-5663(03)00030-7	Rapid and specific detection of herbicides using a self-assembled photosynthetic reaction center from purple bacterium on an SPR chip.	In this study, a direct detection system for herbicides inhibiting photosynthetic electron transfer was developed using the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from the purple bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) apparatus. The heavy-subunit-histidine-tagged RCs (HHisRCs) were immobilized on an SPR sensor chip via nickel chelation chemistry as a binder for one of the triazine herbicides, atrazine. Immediately after injection of atrazine solution on the HHisRCs-immobilized chip, the SPR responses increased and reached plateaus within 1 min. The SPR signals were proportional to the sample concentrations of atrazine in the range 1-100 microg/ml. To evaluate the binding specificity to atrazine, chlorinated aromatic herbicides, DCMU and MCPP, were investigated using the HHisRCs-immobilized chip. An RC inhibitor, DCMU, could also be detected with a higher detection limit of 20 microg/ml than atrazine (1 microg/ml). MCPP showed no signals because its inhibit	2004	4	13	Biosens Bioelectron	Biosensors &amp; bioelectronics	2-Methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic Acid; Atrazine; Biosensing Techniques; Diuron; Enzymes, Immobilized; Herbicides; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Substrate Specificity; Surface Plasmon Resonance	Nakamura	Chikashi
12691616	10.1179/096805103125001315	Lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an agonist in equine cells.	Endotoxemia is associated with the principal causes of death in adult horses and equine neonates and, therefore, veterinary researchers are expending efforts to identify new therapeutic interventions that might be beneficial in these animals. Endotoxin antagonists inhibit interaction of endotoxin with cellular receptors and may be beneficial in the treatment of endotoxemia and sepsis. Diphosphoryl lipid A from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsDPLA) is a potent antagonist of enteric LPS in human cells, but is an agonist in hamster cells. In this study, the effect of lipopolysaccharide from R. sphaeroides (RsLPS) on equine whole blood and isolated monocyte preparations was investigated by comparing tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production in response to RsLPS and Escherichia coli O55:B5 LPS. Our results indicate that RsLPS is a potent agonist in equine cells, which precludes therapeutic use of this agent in equine patients. In contrast to the results in equine cells, RsLPS did not elicit TNF pro	2003	8	21	J Endotoxin Res	Journal of endotoxin research	Animals; Dose-Response Relationship, Immunologic; Escherichia coli; Horses; Humans; Leukocytes, Mononuclear; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Lohmann	Katharina L
12681514	10.1016/s0014-5793(03)00270-9	Photo-accumulation of the P+QB- radical pair state in purple bacterial reaction centres that lack the QA ubiquinone.	Photo-excitation of membrane-bound Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centres containing the mutation Ala M260 to Trp (AM260W) resulted in the accumulation of a radical pair state involving the photo-oxidised primary electron donor (P). This state had a lifetime of hundreds of milliseconds and its formation was inhibited by stigmatellin. The absence of the Q(A) ubiquinone in the AM260W reaction centre suggests that this long-lived radical pair state is P(+)Q(B)(-), although the exact reduction/protonation state of the Q(B) quinone remains to be confirmed. The blockage of active branch (A-branch) electron transfer by the AM260W mutation implies that this P(+)Q(B)(-) state is formed by electron transfer along the so-called inactive branch (B-branch) of reaction centre cofactors. We discuss how further mutations may affect the yield of the P(+)Q(B)(-) state, including a double alanine mutation (EL212A/DL213A) that probably has a direct effect on the efficiency of the low yield electron tran	2003	4	30	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Free Radicals; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Potentiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Wakeham	Marion C
12681478	10.1016/s0014-5793(03)00237-0	Coupling of nuclear wavepacket motion and charge separation in bacterial reaction centers.	The mechanism of the charge separation and stabilization of separated charges was studied using the femtosecond absorption spectroscopy. It was found that nuclear wavepacket motions on potential energy surface of the excited state of the primary electron donor P* leads to a coherent formation of the charge separated states P(+)B(A)(-), P(+)H(A)(-) and P(+)H(B)(-) (where B(A), H(B) and H(A) are the primary and secondary electron acceptors, respectively) in native, pheophytin-modified and mutant reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 and in Chloroflexus aurantiacus RCs. The processes were studied by measurements of coherent oscillations in kinetics at 890 and 935 nm (the stimulated emission bands of P*), at 800 nm (the absorption band of B(A)) and at 1020 nm (the absorption band of B(A)(-)) as well as at 760 nm (the absorption band of H(A)) and at 750 nm (the absorption band of H(B)). It was found that wavepacket motion on the 130-150 cm(-1) potential surface of P* is acc	2003	4	30	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shuvalov	V A
12686637	10.1099/mic.0.26010-0	Digging deeper: uncovering genetic loci which modulate photosynthesis gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	A new genetic locus was identified in Rhodobacter sphaeroides which is required for optimal synthesis of the light-harvesting spectral complexes as well as for optimal growth under anaerobic conditions with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as a terminal electron acceptor. The primary structure of the deduced osp gene product shows significant homology to the receiver domain of known response regulators common to bacterial two-component systems. However, site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the Osp protein appears not to be involved in a phospho-relay signal transduction pathway. Paradoxically, the effect of the Osp protein upon spectral complex levels is exerted at the transcriptional level of photosynthesis gene expression. The absence of the Osp protein does not appear to have a general effect on house-keeping metabolism. In cells lacking Osp, the levels of DMSO reductase appear to be normal. The quaternary structure of the Osp protein was determined to be a homodimer and it was directly	2003	7	1	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Oh	Jeong-Ii
12679539	10.1093/molbev/msg100	"Green-like" and "red-like" RubisCO cbbL genes in Rhodobacter azotoformans.	We found that Rhodobacter azotoformans IFO 16436T contains two different cbbL genes coding form I ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) large subunits. One gene is located within a "green-like" group of the RubisCO phylogenetic tree, and the other is located within a "red-like" group. This is the first report that one organism contains both green-like and red-like RubisCO genes. Moreover, by PCR using primers which amplify two green-like and red-like cbbL genes alternatively and dot blot hybridization, we demonstrated that Rhodobacter blasticus, Rhodobacter capsulatus, and Rhodobacter veldkampii possess only green-like cbbL genes, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides possesses only a red-like cbbL gene. In the cbbL phylogenic analysis, R. spaeroides and R. azotoformans 1 (red-like) formed a cluster within the red-like group, and R. capsulatus, R. azotoformans 2 (green-like), R. blasticus, and R. veldkampii formed a cluster within the green-like group. This suggests that red-	2004	1	5	Mol Biol Evol	Molecular biology and evolution	Base Sequence; Blotting, Southern; Cluster Analysis; Codon; DNA Primers; Electrophoresis; Evolution, Molecular; Likelihood Functions; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Uchino	Yoshihito
12669192	10.1007/s00203-003-0539-2	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a family II pyrophosphatase: comparison with other species of photosynthetic bacteria.	The cytoplasmic pyrophosphatase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was purified and characterized. The enzyme is a homodimer of 64 kDa. The N-terminus was sequenced and used to obtain the complete pyrophosphatase sequence from the preliminary genome sequence of Rba. sphaeroides, showing extensive sequence similarity to family II or class C pyrophosphatases. The enzyme hydrolyzes only Mg-PP(i) and Mn-PP(i) with a K(m) of 0.35 mM for both substrates. It is not activated by free Mg (2+), in contrast to the cytoplasmic pyrophosphatase from Rhodospirillum rubrum, and it is not inhibited by NaF, methylendiphosphate, or imidodiphosphate. This work shows that Rba. sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus cytoplasmic pyrophosphatases belong to family II, in contrast to Rsp. rubrum, Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodopseudomonas gelatinosa, and Rhodomicrobium vannielii cytoplasmic pyrophosphatases which should be classified as members of family I. This is the first report of family II cytoplasmic pyrophos	2003	7	17	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Cations, Divalent; Cyanobacteria; Hot Temperature; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Weight; Pyrophosphatases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sodium Fluoride; Substrate Specificity	Celis	Heliodoro
12667079	10.1021/bi026781t	Redox potential of quinones in photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: dependence on protonation of Glu-L212 and Asp-L213.	The absolute values of the one-electron redox potentials of the two quinones (Q(A) and Q(B)) in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were calculated by evaluating the electrostatic energies from the solution of the linearized Poisson-Boltzmann equation at pH 7.0. The redox potential for Q(A) was calculated to be between -173 and -160 mV, which is close to the lowest measured values that are assumed to refer to nonequilibrated protonation patterns in the redox state Q(A)(-). The redox potential of quinone Q(B) is found to be about 160-220 mV larger for the light-exposed than for the dark-adapted structure. These values of the redox potentials are obtained if Asp-L213 is nearly protonated (probability 0.75-1.0) before and after electron transfer from Q(A) to Q(B), while Glu-L212 is partially protonated (probability 0.6) in the initial state Q(A)(-)Q(B)(0) and fully protonated in the final state Q(A)(0)Q(B)(-). Conversely, if the charge state of the quino	2003	5	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Aspartic Acid; Deuterium Oxide; Electron Transport; Glutamic Acid; Glutamine; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Ishikita	Hiroshi
12631280	10.1046/j.1432-1033.2003.03482.x	Disease-related mutations in cytochrome c oxidase studied in yeast and bacterial models.	Mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase is a key protonmotive component of the respiratory chain. Mutations in the mitochondrially-encoded subunits of the complex have been reported in association with a range of diseases. In this work we used yeast and bacterial mutants to assess the effect of human mutations in subunit 1 (L196I) and subunit 3 (G78S, A200T, Delta F94-F98, F251L and W249Stop). While the stop mutation at the C-terminus of subunit 3 and the short deletion were highly deleterious and abolished the assembly of the mitochondrial enzyme, the four missense mutations caused little or no effect on the respiratory function. Detailed analysis of G78S, A200T and Delta F94-F98 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides confirmed and extended these observations. We show in this study that the combination of yeast and bacterial models is a useful tool to elucidate the effect of mutations in the catalytic core of cytochrome oxidase. The yeast enzyme is highly similar to the human enzyme and provides a goo	2003	5	9	Eur J Biochem	European journal of biochemistry	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Fungal Proteins; Genetic Diseases, Inborn; Humans; Mitochondria; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bratton	Melyssa
12624204	10.1099/mic.0.25978-0	Thioredoxin 2 is involved in oxidative stress defence and redox-dependent expression of photosynthesis genes in Rhodobacter capsulatus.	Thioredoxins are small ubiquitous proteins that display different functions mainly via redox-mediated processes. The facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus harbours at least two genes for thioredoxin 1 and 2, trxA and trxC. It is demonstrated that thioredoxin 2 of R. capsulatus can partially replace the thioredoxin 1 function as a hydrogen donor for methionine sulfoxide reductase but cannot replace thioredoxin 1 as a subunit of phage T7 DNA polymerase. By inactivating the trxC gene in R. capsulatus, it is shown that thioredoxin 2 is involved in resistance against oxidative stress. As thioredoxin 1 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, R. capsulatus thioredoxin 2 affects the oxygen-dependent expression of photosynthesis genes, albeit in an opposite way. The trxC mutant of R. capsulatus shows a stronger increase in photosynthesis gene expression after a decrease in oxygen tension than the isogenic wild-type strain. The expression of the trxC gene is downregulated by oxygen.	2003	5	2	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacteriochlorophylls; Culture Media; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Methionine Sulfoxide Reductases; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidative Stress; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Thioredoxins	Li	Kuanyu
12624200	10.1099/mic.0.25972-0	Identification and in vivo characterization of PpaA, a regulator of photosystem formation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A regulatory protein, PpaA, involved in photosystem formation in the anoxygenic phototrophic proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been identified and characterized in vivo. Based on the phenotypes of cells expressing the ppaA gene in extra copy and on the phenotype of the ppaA null mutant, it was concluded that PpaA activates photopigment production and puc operon expression under aerobic conditions. This is in contrast to the function of the PpaA homologue from Rhodobacter capsulatus, AerR, which acts as a repressor under aerobic conditions [Dong, C., Elsen, S., Swem, L. R. &amp; Bauer, C. E. (2002). J Bacteriol 184, 2805-2814]. The expression of the ppaA gene increases several-fold in response to a decrease in oxygen tension, suggesting that the PpaA protein is active under conditions of low or no oxygen. However, no discernible phenotype of a ppaA null mutant was observed under anaerobic conditions tested thus far. The photosystem gene repressor PpsR mediates repression of pp	2003	5	2	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Aerobiosis; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Corrinoids; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porphyrins; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Trans-Activators	Gomelsky	Larissa
12615343	10.1016/s0005-2728(02)00373-0	The effect of exchange of bacteriopheophytin a with plant pheophytin a on charge separation in Y(M210)W mutant reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides at low temperature.	The bacteriopheophytin a molecules at the H(A) and H(B) binding sites of reaction centers (RCs) of the Y(M210)W mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were chemically exchanged with plant pheophytin a. The Y(M210)W mutation slows down the formation of H(A)(-), presumably by raising the free energy level of the P(+)B(A)(-) state above that of P* due to increasing the oxidation potential of the primary electron donor P and lowering the reduction potential of the accessory bacteriochlorophyll B(A). Exchange of the bacteriopheophytins with pheophytin a on the contrary lowers the redox potential of H(A), inhibiting its reduction. A combination of the mutation and pigment exchange was therefore expected to make the A-side of the RC incapable of electron transfer and cause the excited state P* to deactivate directly to the ground state or through the B-side, or both. Time-resolved absorption difference spectroscopy at 10 K on the RCs that were modified in this way showed a lifetime of P* lengthene	2003	6	27	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plants; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Time Factors	Shkuropatov	Anatoli Ya
12610226	10.1093/pcp/pcg021	An abundant periplasmic protein of the denitrifying phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans is PstS, a component of an ABC phosphate transport system.	To understand a physiological role of an abundant 34-kDa periplasmic protein in the denitrifying phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans grown in a medium containing malate as the carbon source, the gene for the protein was isolated. The deduced amino acid sequence of the protein had a sequence similarity of 66.2% to that of PstS from Sinorhizobium meliloti. The downstream sequence of the Rhodobacter pstS contained five genes similar to pstCAB and phoUB, and its upstream sequence contained a putative regulatory sequence that is analogous to the Pho box involved in phosphate-limitation-induced gene expression in Escherichia coli. Both the amount of the PstS and the pstS promoter-driven expression of lacZ activity increased about two-fold in response to phosphate limitation. This is the first isolation of pst genes encoding proteins of an ABC phosphate transporter system from phototrophic bacteria.	2003	5	19	Plant Cell Physiol	Plant &amp; cell physiology	ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Malates; Molecular Sequence Data; Periplasmic Proteins; Phosphate Transport Proteins; Phosphates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Matsuzaki	Masahiro
12609910	10.1016/S0006-3495(03)75016-4	The position of QB in the photosynthetic reaction center depends on pH: a theoretical analysis of the proton uptake upon QB reduction.	Electrostatics-based calculations have been performed to examine the proton uptake upon reduction of the terminal electron acceptor Q(B) in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a function of pH and the associated conformational equilibrium. Two crystal structures of the reaction center were considered: one structure was determined in the dark and the other under illumination. In the two structures, the Q(B) was found in two different positions, proximal or distal to the nonheme iron. Because Q(B) was found mainly in the distal position in the dark and only in the proximal position under illumination, the two positions have been attributed mostly to the oxidized and the reduced forms of Q(B), respectively. We calculated the proton uptake upon Q(B) reduction by four different models. In the first model, Q(B) is allowed to equilibrate between the two positions with either oxidation state. This equilibrium was allowed to vary with pH. In the other three models t	2003	11	4	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Computer Simulation; Crystallography; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Photons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Taly	Antoine
12606050	10.1016/s0014-5793(03)00118-2	Photoreduction of the quinone pool in the bacterial photosynthetic membrane: identification of infrared marker bands for quinol formation.	The photoreduction of the quinone (Q) pool in the photosynthetic membrane of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated by steady-state and time-resolved Fourier transform infrared difference spectroscopy. The results are consistent with the existence of a homogeneous Q pool inside the chromatophore membrane, with a size of around 20 Q molecules per reaction center. IR marker bands for the quinone/quinol (Q/QH(2)) redox couple were recognized. QH(2) bands are identified at 1491, 1470, 1433 and 1388-1375 cm(-1). The 1491 cm(-1) band, which is sensitive to (1)H/(2)H exchange, is assigned to a C-C ring mode coupled to a C-OH mode. A feature at approximately 1743/1720 cm(-1) is tentatively related to a perturbation of the carbonyl modes of phospholipid head groups induced by QH(2) formation. Complex conformational changes of the protein in the amide I and II spectral ranges are also apparent during reduction and reoxidation of the Q pool.	2003	4	18	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Bacterial Chromatophores; Cell Membrane; Hydroquinones; Intracellular Membranes; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Mezzetti	Alberto
12601011	10.1074/jbc.M211267200	Interactions of the cbbII promoter-operator region with CbbR and RegA (PrrA) regulators indicate distinct mechanisms to control expression of the two cbb operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In a previous study (Dubbs, J. M., Bird, T. H., Bauer, C. E., and Tabita, F. R. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 19224-19230), it was demonstrated that the regulators CbbR and RegA (PrrA) interacted with both promoter proximal and promoter distal regions of the form I (cbb(I)) promoter operon specifying genes of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. To determine how these regulators interact with the form II (cbb(II)) promoter, three cbbF(II)::lacZ translational fusion plasmids were constructed containing various lengths of sequence 5' to the cbb(II) operon of R. sphaeroides CAC. Expression of beta-galactosidase was monitored under a variety of growth conditions in both the parental strain and knock-out strains that contain mutations that affect synthesis of CbbR and RegA. The binding sites for both CbbR and RegA were determined by DNase I footprinting. A region of the cbb(II) promoter from +38 to -227 bp contained a CbbR binding site and conferred low level regulated c	2003	6	17	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Regulator; Molecular Sequence Data; Operator Regions, Genetic; Operon; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Dubbs	James M
12594923	10.1098/rstb.2002.1189	Redox and light regulation of gene expression in photosynthetic prokaryotes.	All photosynthetic organisms control expression of photosynthesis genes in response to alterations in light intensity as well as to changes in cellular redox potential. Light regulation in plants involves a well-defined set of red- and blue-light absorbing photoreceptors called phytochrome and cryptochrome. Less understood are the factors that control synthesis of the plant photosystem in response to changes in cellular redox. Among a diverse set of photosynthetic bacteria the best understood regulatory systems are those synthesized by the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus. This species uses the global two-component signal transduction cascade, RegB and RegA, to anaerobically de-repress anaerobic gene expression. Under reducing conditions, the phosphate on RegB is transferred to RegA, which then activates genes involved in photosynthesis, nitrogen fixation, carbon fixation, respiration and electron transport. In the presence of oxygen, there is a second regulator known as	2003	4	23	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences	Bacteria; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis	Bauer	Carl
12578386	10.1021/bi026750y	Substitutions for glutamate 101 in subunit II of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides result in blocking the proton-conducting K-channel.	Two functional input pathways for protons have been characterized in the heme-copper oxidases: the D-channel and the K-channel. These two proton-conducting channels have different functional roles and have been defined both by X-ray crystallography and by the characterization of site-directed mutants. Whereas the entrance of the D-channel is well-defined as D132(I) (subunit I; Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering), the entrance of the K-channel has not been clearly defined. Previous mutagenesis studies of the cytochrome bo(3) quinol oxidase from Escherichia coli implicated an almost fully conserved glutamic acid residue within subunit II as a likely candidate for the entrance of the K-channel. The current work examines the properties of mutants of this conserved glutamate in the oxidase from R. sphaeroides (E101(II)I,A,C,Q,D,N,H) and residues in the immediate vicinity of E101(II). It is shown that virtually any substitution for E101(II), including E101(II)D, strongly reduces oxidase turno	2003	5	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Conserved Sequence; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Heme; Hydrogen Peroxide; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidants; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Subunits; Proton Pump Inhibitors; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Tomson	Farol L
12578361	10.1021/bi026524o	Intramolecular proton-transfer reactions in a membrane-bound proton pump: the effect of pH on the peroxy to ferryl transition in cytochrome c oxidase.	In the membrane-bound redox-driven proton pump cytochrome c oxidase, electron- and proton-transfer reactions must be coupled, which requires controlled modulation of the kinetic and/or thermodynamic properties of proton-transfer reactions through the membrane-spanning part of the protein. In this study we have investigated proton-transfer reactions through a pathway that is used for the transfer of both substrate and pumped protons in cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Specifically, we focus on the formation of the so-called F intermediate, which is rate limited by an internal proton-transfer reaction from a possible branching point in the pathway, at a glutamic-acid residue (E(I-286)), to the binuclear center. We have also studied the reprotonation of E(I-286) from the bulk solution. Evaluation of the data in terms of a model presented in this work gives a rate of internal proton transfer from E(I-286) to the proton acceptor at the catalytic site of 1.1 x 10(4) s(-1). 	2003	5	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Carbon Monoxide; Catalysis; Cattle; Cell Membrane; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Oxidation-Reduction; Photolysis; Protein Binding; Proton Pumps; Protons; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Namslauer	Andreas
12570988	10.1128/AEM.69.2.725-733.2003	Isolation and molecular characterization of pMG160, a mobilizable cryptic plasmid from Rhodobacter blasticus.	A 3.4-kb cryptic plasmid was obtained from a new isolate of Rhodobacter blasticus. This plasmid, designated pMG160, was mobilizable by the conjugative strain Escherichia coli S17.1 into Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter capsulatus, and Rhodopseudomonas palustris. It replicated in the latter strains but not in Rhodospirillum rubrum, Rhodocyclus gelatinosus, or Bradyrhizobium species. Plasmid pMG160 was stably maintained in R. sphaeroides for more than 100 generations in the absence of selection but showed segregational instability in R. palustris. Instability in R. palustris correlated with a decrease in plasmid copy number compared to the copy number in R. sphaeroides. The complete nucleotide sequence of plasmid pMG160 contained three open reading frames (ORFs). The deduced amino acid sequences encoded by ORF1 and ORF2 showed high degrees of homology to the MobS and MobL proteins that are involved in plasmid mobilization of certain plasmids. Based on homology with the Rep protein of	2003	4	15	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Replication; Escherichia coli; Gene Deletion; Gene Dosage; Genetic Vectors; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Inui	Masayuki
12560097	10.1016/s0014-5793(02)03899-1	Sequence analysis reveals new membrane anchor of reaction centre-bound cytochromes possibly related to PufX.	Most of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction centres known to date contain a cytochrome subunit with four covalently bound haem groups. In the case of Blastochloris viridis, this reaction centre subunit is anchored in the membrane by a lipid molecule covalently attached to the cysteine which forms the N-terminus of the mature protein after processing by a signal peptidase. We show that posttranslational N-terminal cleavage of the cytochrome subunit does not occur in the aerobic photosynthetic bacterium Roseobacter denitrificans. From sequence analysis of the resulting elongated N-terminus it follows that a transmembrane helix is anchoring the reaction centre-bound cytochrome in the membrane. Comparative sequence analysis strongly suggests that all cytochrome subunits lacking the lipid coupling cysteine share this structural feature. Comparison of the N-terminal segment of the cytochrome subunit of Roseobacter denitrificans with the sequences of the PufX proteins from Rhodobacter sphae	2003	3	21	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteria; Bacteria, Aerobic; Bacterial Proteins; Cytochromes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Phylogeny; Protein Subunits; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Hucke	Oliver
12547795	10.1016/S0006-3495(03)74930-3	Self-regulation phenomena applied to bacterial reaction centers: 2. Nonequilibrium adiabatic potential: dark and light conformations revisited.	Experimental and theoretical results in support of nonlinear dynamic behavior of photosynthetic reaction centers under light-activated conditions are presented. Different conditions of light adaptation allow for preparation of reaction centers in either of two different conformational states. These states were detected both by short actinic flashes and by the switching of the actinic illumination level between different stationary state values. In the second method, the equilibration kinetics of reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were shown to be inherently biphasic. The fast and slow equilibration kinetics are shown to correspond to electron transfer (charge separation) at a fixed structure and to combined electron-conformational transitions governed by the bounded diffusion along the potential surface, respectively. The primary donor recovery kinetics after an actinic flash revealed a pronounced dependence on the time interval (deltat) between cessation of a lengt	2003	8	19	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Adaptation, Physiological; Darkness; Detergents; Homeostasis; Kinetics; Light; Macromolecular Substances; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Nonlinear Dynamics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter; Species Specificity	Goushcha	Alexander O
12525495	10.1074/jbc.M211620200	Effect of famoxadone on photoinduced electron transfer between the iron-sulfur center and cytochrome c1 in the cytochrome bc1 complex.	Famoxadone is a new cytochrome bc(1) Q(o) site inhibitor that immobilizes the iron-sulfur protein (ISP) in the b conformation. The effects of famoxadone on electron transfer between the iron-sulfur center (2Fe-2S) and cyt c(1) were studied using a ruthenium dimer to photoinitiate the reaction. The rate constant for electron transfer in the forward direction from 2Fe-2S to cyt c(1) was found to be 16,000 s(-1) in bovine cyt bc(1). Binding famoxadone decreased this rate constant to 1,480 s(-1), consistent with a decrease in mobility of the ISP. Reverse electron transfer from cyt c(1) to 2Fe-2S was found to be biphasic in bovine cyt bc(1) with rate constants of 90,000 and 7,300 s(-1). In the presence of famoxadone, reverse electron transfer was monophasic with a rate constant of 1,420 s(-1). It appears that the rate constants for the release of the oxidized and reduced ISP from the b conformation are the same in the presence of famoxadone. The effects of famoxadone binding on electron tra	2003	5	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Acrylates; Animals; Cattle; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Enzyme Inhibitors; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Methacrylates; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxazoles; Photochemistry; Protein Conformation; Pyrimidines; Strobilurins	Xiao	Kunhong
12511487	10.1128/JB.185.2.422-431.2003	Features of Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcmFH.	In this study, the in vivo function and properties of two cytochrome c maturation proteins, CcmF and CcmH from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, were analyzed. Strains lacking CcmH or both CcmF and CcmH are unable to grow under anaerobic conditions where c-type cytochromes are required, demonstrating their critical role in the assembly of these electron carriers. Consistent with this observation, strains lacking both CcmF and CcmH are deficient in c-type cytochromes when assayed under permissive growth conditions. In contrast, under permissive growth conditions, strains lacking only CcmH contain several soluble and membrane-bound c-type cytochromes, albeit at reduced levels, suggesting that this bacterium has a CcmH-independent route for their maturation. In addition, the function of CcmH that is needed to support anaerobic growth can be replaced by adding cysteine or cystine to growth media. The ability of exogenous thiol compounds to replace CcmH provides the first physiological evidence for 	2003	1	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Cell Membrane; Culture Media; Cytochrome c Group; Escherichia coli Proteins; Lyases; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfhydryl Compounds	Rios-Velazquez	Carlos
12504898	10.1016/s0003-9861(02)00563-5	Biotin sulfoxide reductase: Tryptophan 90 is required for efficient substrate utilization.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans biotin sulfoxide reductase (BSOR) catalyzes the reduction of d-biotin d-sulfoxide to biotin and contains the molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide (MGD) cofactor as its sole prosthetic group. Comparison of the primary sequences of BSOR and the closely related enzyme dimethyl sulfoxide reductase (DMSOR) indicated a number of conserved residues, including an active-site tryptophan residue (W90), which has been suggested to be involved in hydrogen bonding to the oxo group on the Mo(VI) center in BSOR. Site-directed mutagenesis has been used to replace tryptophan 90 in BSOR with phenylalanine, tyrosine, and alanine residues to examine the role of this residue in catalysis. All three BSOR mutant proteins were purified to homogeneity and contained MGD. The mutant proteins retained very limited activity toward the oxidizing substrates tested, with W90F retaining the most activity (3.4% of wild type). All three W90 mutant proteins exhibited greatly red	2003	2	13	Arch Biochem Biophys	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	Alanine; Escherichia coli; Guanine Nucleotides; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Isoenzymes; Molybdenum; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidoreductases; Phenylalanine; Pterins; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tryptophan; Tyrosine	Pollock	Veronica V
12498803	10.1016/s0022-2836(02)01241-x	AFM characterization of tilt and intrinsic flexibility of Rhodobacter sphaeroides light harvesting complex 2 (LH2).	Atomic force microscopy (AFM) has developed into a powerful tool to investigate membrane protein surfaces in a close-to-native environment. Here we report on the surface topography of Rhodobacter sphaeroides light harvesting complex 2 (LH2) reconstituted into two-dimensional crystals. These photosynthetic trans-membrane proteins formed cylindrical oligomeric complexes, which inserted tilted into the lipid membrane. This peculiar packing of an integral membrane protein allowed us to determine oligomerization and tilt of the LH2 complexes, but also protrusion height and intrinsic flexibility of their individual subunits. Furthermore the surface contouring reliability and limits of the atomic force microscopy could be studied. The two-dimensional crystals examined had sizes of up to 5 microm and, as revealed by a 10 A cryo electron microscopy projection map, p22(1)2(1) crystal symmetry. The unit cell had dimensions of a = b = 150 A and gamma = 90 degrees, and housed four nonameric complex	2003	2	19	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Cell Membrane; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Crystallography; Detergents; Dimethylamines; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pliability; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Scheuring	Simon
16328817	10.1023/B:PRES.0000030424.65521.07	My daily constitutional in martinsried.	The three-dimensional structures of bacterial reaction centers have served as the framework for much of our understanding of anoxygenic photosynthesis. A key step in the determination of the structure of the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was the use the molecular replacement technique. For this technique, we made use of two sets of data. First, X-ray diffraction data had been measured from crystals of the reaction center from R. sphaeroides by our research group in California, led by George Feher and Douglas Rees. The second data set consisted of the coordinates of the three-dimensional structure of the reaction center from Rhodopseudomonas (now Blastochloris) viridis, which had been solved in the pioneering efforts of a group in Martinsried, led by Johann Deisenhofer, Robert Huber and Hartmut Michel. The collaborative efforts of these two groups to determine the structure of the reaction center from R. sphaeroides is described.	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Allen	James P
16233685	10.1016/S1389-1723(04)00261-0	Production of vitamin B12 in genetically engineered Propionibacterium freudenreichii.	Since the chemical synthesis of vitamin B12 requires more than 70 steps, the production of vitamin B12 has been achieved by microorganism fermentation with additional brief chemical modifications. In an effort to increase the productivity of vitamin B12, we tried to express 10 genes belonging to the hem, cob and cbi gene families involved in the synthesis of vitamin B12 in Propionibacterium freudenreichii, which is a known producer of vitamin B12. In a recombinant P. freudenreichii clone that harbored the expression vector containing a cobA, cbiLF, or cbiEGH, we obtained an increase in vitamin B12 production of 1.7-, 1.9-, and 1.5-fold higher, respectively, than that in the microorganism without any cloned genes in the expression vector pPK705. The cobU and cobS genes caused a slight increase in the production of vitamin B12. Furthermore, we achieved multigene expression in P. freudenreichii. In a recombinant P. freudenreichii clone that harbored an exogenous gene, hemA, from Rhodobact	2005	10	26	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	NA	Piao	Yongzhe
16228615	10.1023/B:PRES.0000040445.71124.96	Triplet Excitation Transfer between Carotenoids in the LH2 Complex from Photosynthetic Bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris.	We have studied, by means of sub-microsecond time-resolved absorption spectroscopy, the triplet-excited state dynamics of carotenoids (Cars) in the intermediate-light adapted LH2 complex (ML-LH2) from Rhodopseudomonas palustris containing Cars with different numbers of conjugated double bonds. Following pulsed photo-excitation at 590 nm at room temperature, rapid spectral equilibration was observed either as a red shift of the isosbestic wavelength on a time scale of 0.6-1.0 mus, or as a fast decay in the shorter-wavelength side of the T(n)&lt;--T(1) absorption of Cars with a time constant of 0.5-0.8 mus. Two major spectral components assignable to Cars with 11 and 12 conjugated double bonds were identified. The equilibration was not observed in the ML-LH2 at 77 K, or in the LH2 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides G1C containing a single type of Car. The unique spectral equilibration was ascribed to temperature-dependent triplet excitation transfer among different Car compositions. Th	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Feng	Juan
16228404	10.1023/B:PRES.0000011927.51349.e8	Effects of Precise Deletions in Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Center Genes on Steady-state Levels of Reaction Center Proteins: A Revised Model for Reaction Center Assembly.	Possible interactions between photosynthetic reaction center (RC) proteins that protect these membrane proteins from proteolytic digestion in RC complex assembly were evaluated by use of translationally in-frame (nonpolar) RC gene-specific deletions. The RC H, RC M and RC L proteins were produced from plasmids, either alone or in concert with one or both of the others, in a strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides that contained chromosomal deletions of all three RC genes. The steady-state amounts of these proteins in cell membrane and soluble fractions were assessed in western blots. The data are used to propose a model of RC assembly in which the RC M protein accumulates in the cell membrane regardless of the presence of the RC H and RC L proteins, and the RC M protein is a nucleus for addition of RC L followed by RC H in assembly of the RC holocomplex.	2020	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	NA	Tehrani	Ali
15714939	10.1007/s10628-005-0001-2	Femtosecond dynamics of transition processes in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2005	8	4	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Paschenko	V Z
15645340	10.1007/s10126-004-1007-y	Metabolically engineered Rhodobacter sphaeroides RV strains for improved biohydrogen photoproduction combined with disposal of food wastes.	Three differently metabolically engineered strains, 2 single PHA- and Hup- mutants and one double PHA-/Hup- mutant, of the purple nonsulfur photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides RV, were constructed to improve a light-driven biohydrogen production process combined with the disposal of solid food wastes. These phenotypes were designed to abolish, singly or in combination, the competition of H2 photoproduction with polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) accumulation by inactivating PHA synthase activity, and with H2 recycling by abolishing the uptake hydrogenase enzyme. The performance of these mutants was compared with that of the wild-type strain in laboratory tests carried out in continuously fed photobioreactors using as substrates both synthetic media containing lactic acid and media from the acidogenic fermentation of actual fruit and vegetable wastes, containing mainly lactic acid, smaller amounts of acetic acia, and traces of higher volatile acids. With the lactic acid-based synth	2005	8	8	Mar Biotechnol (NY)	Marine biotechnology (New York, N.Y.)	Acyltransferases; Base Sequence; Biodegradation, Environmental; Bioreactors; Blotting, Southern; Gene Silencing; Genetic Engineering; Hydrogen; Lactic Acid; Light; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis; Photochemistry; Plasmids; Refuse Disposal; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity	Franchi	Elisabetta
15613631	10.1529/biophysj.104.050971	Multiple scattering x-ray absorption studies of Zn2+ binding sites in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	Binding of transition metal ions to the reaction center (RC) protein of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been previously shown to slow light-induced electron and proton transfer to the secondary quinone acceptor molecule, Q(B). On the basis of x-ray diffraction at 2.5 angstroms resolution a site, formed by AspH124, HisH126, and HisH128, has been identified at the protein surface which binds Cd(2+) or Zn(2+). Using Zn K-edge x-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy we report here on the local structure of Zn(2+) ions bound to purified RC complexes embedded into polyvinyl alcohol films. X-ray absorption fine structure data were analyzed by combining ab initio simulations and multiparameter fitting; structural contributions up to the fourth coordination shell and multiple scattering paths (involving three atoms) have been included. Results for complexes characterized by a Zn to RC stoichiometry close to one indicate that Zn(2+) binds two O and two N atoms in th	2005	7	6	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Absorptiometry, Photon; Binding Sites; Computer Simulation; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Diffraction; Zinc	Giachini	Lisa
15610035	10.1021/bi0481904	Binding of oxidized and reduced cytochrome c2 to photosynthetic reaction centers: plasmon-waveguide resonance spectroscopy.	The dissociation constants for the binding of oxidized and reduced wild-type cytochrome c(2) from Rhodobacter capsulatus and the lysine 93 to proline mutant of cytochrome c(2) to photosynthetic reaction centers (Rhodobacter sphaeroides) has been measured to high precision using plasmon-waveguide resonance spectroscopy. For the studies reported, detergent-solubilized photosynthetic reaction center was exchanged into a phosphatidylcholine lipid bilayer to approximate the physiological environment. At physiologically relevant ionic strengths ( approximately 100 mM), we found two binding sites for the reduced wild-type cytochrome (K(D) = 10 and 150 nM), with affinities that decrease with decreasing ionic strength (2-5-fold). These results implicate nonpolar interactions as an important factor in determining the dissociation constants. Taking advantage of the ability of plasmon-waveguide resonance spectroscopy to reslove the contribution of changes in mass and of structural anisotropy to cy	2005	2	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cytochromes c2; Ligands; Lipid Bilayers; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Surface Plasmon Resonance	Devanathan	S
15601770	10.1073/pnas.0407295102	The long-range organization of a native photosynthetic membrane.	Photosynthesis relies on the delicate interplay between a specific set of membrane-bound pigment-protein complexes that harvest and transport solar energy, execute charge separation, and conserve the energy. We have investigated the organization of the light-harvesting (LH) and reaction-center (RC) complexes in native bacterial photosynthetic membranes of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by using polarized light spectroscopy, linear dichroism (LD) on oriented membranes. These LD measurements show that in native membranes, which contain LH2 as the major energy absorber, the RC-LH1-PufX complexes are highly organized in a way similar to that which we found previously for a mutant lacking LH2. The relative contribution of LH1 and LH2 light-harvesting complexes to the LD spectrum shows that LH2 preferentially resides in highly curved parts of the membrane. Combining the spectroscopic data with our recent atomic force microscopy (AFM) results, we propose an organization for this	2005	2	28	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Cytoplasm; Intracellular Membranes; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Biological; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Time Factors	Frese	Raoul N
15598894	10.1093/jb/mvh125	Reconstitution and replacement of bacteriochlorophyll a molecules in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Reaction centers (RCs) of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 were reconstituted in liposomes after release of pigments (bacteriochlorophyll a (BChla) and bacteriopheophytin a (BPhea)) by treatment with acetone. As shown by absorption and circular dichroism spectroscopies, the reconstituted RCs had the same arrangement of pigments as the native RC and exhibited photoactivity of the special pair. The recovery yield of RCs of up to 30% was achieved by addition of 7.8-fold excess of BChla in the acetone treatment. Furthermore BChla was partially replaced with Zn-BChla by addition of the pigments during the acetone treatment. About 30% and 50% of the special pair and accessory pigments can be replaced with Zn-BChla, respectively. From this rate, an oxidation-reduction potential of 520 mV (vs. the normal hydrogen electrode NHE) was derived by the simulation of the experimental data, which is 35 mV higher than that of the native RC (484 mV vs. NHE).	2005	7	18	J Biochem	Journal of biochemistry	Acetone; Ascorbic Acid; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Circular Dichroism; Electrodes; Hydrogen; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Liposomes; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors; Zinc	Kobayashi	Masayuki
15574962	10.1128/AEM.70.12.7561-7566.2004	Effects of expression of hemA and hemB genes on production of porphyrin in Propionibacterium freudenreichii.	The genus Propionibacterium has a wide range of probiotic activities that are exploited in dairy and fermentation systems such as cheeses, propionic acid, and tetrapyrrole compounds. In order to improve production of tetrapyrrole compounds, we expressed the hemA gene, which encodes delta-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) synthase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and the hemB gene, which encodes porphobilinogen (PBG) synthase from Propionibacterium freudenreichii subsp. shermanii IFO12424, either monocistronically or polycistronically in strain IFO12426. The recombinant strains accumulated larger amounts of ALA and PBG, with resultant 28- to 33-fold-higher production of porphyrinogens, such as uroporphyrinogen and coproporphyrinogen, than those observed in strain IFO12426, which harbored the shuttle vector pPK705.	2005	2	15	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Engineering; Genetic Vectors; Porphobilinogen Synthase; Porphyrins; Propionibacterium; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter	Piao	Yongzhe
15570388	10.1039/b410923f	Chromophore composition of a heterologously expressed BLUF-domain.	Upon heterologous expression of the BLUF (for: Blue-Light sensing Using Flavin) domain from AppA, a transcriptional anti-repressor from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, in Escherichia coli, photoactive holo-protein is formed through non-covalent binding of a flavin. Whereas it is generally assumed that FAD is the physiological chromophore of this photo-perception domain in vivo, E. coli can (and does) insert, depending on the growth conditions, all naturally occurring flavins, i.e. riboflavin, FMN and FAD into this protein domain. The nature of the particular flavin bound affects the photochemical- and particularly the fluorescence properties of the N-terminal domain of this photosensory protein.	2005	4	28	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Escherichia coli; Flavoproteins; Light; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Laan	Wouter
15554714	10.1021/bi048802k	Neosynthesis of cardiolipin in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under osmotic stress.	The phospholipid composition of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells resuspended in various hypertonic solutions has been examined by thin-layer chromatography and ESI mass spectrometry. R. sphaeroides responds to hyperosmotic stress by increasing the amount of cardiolipin in the membranes; this phenomenon occurs in spheroplasts also. Cardiolipin increases quickly and continuously during the time when the cells are resuspended in hypertonic medium. The optimum of stimulation of the neosynthesis of cardiolipin during osmotic stress was found to be at external 1 osm. ESI-MS analyses allowed the identification of two different cardiolipins in R. sphaeroides: the tetravaccenylcardiolipin ([M - H](-), m/z 1456.9) and the trivaccenylmonopalmitoylcardiolipin ([M - H](-), m/z 1430.0).	2005	1	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cardiolipins; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Densitometry; Hypertonic Solutions; Kinetics; Membrane Lipids; Osmotic Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Spheroplasts	Catucci	Lucia
15554705	10.1021/bi048671n	Structural intermediate in the photocycle of a BLUF (sensor of blue light using FAD) protein Slr1694 in a Cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803.	Slr1694 in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 is a family of blue-light photoreceptors based on flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) called BLUF (sensor of blue light using FAD) proteins, which include AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and PAC from Euglena gracilis. Illumination of dark-state Slr1694 at 15 degrees C reversibly induced a signaling light state characterized by the red shift in the UV-visible spectrum and by the light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectrum for structural changes of a bound flavin and apo protein. Illumination at the medium-low temperature (-35 degrees C) led to the red shift in the UV-visible spectrum despite some small difference in the light-induced changes. In contrast, the -35 degrees C illumination resulted in a completely different light-induced FTIR spectrum, in which almost all of the bands were suppressed with the exception of the bands for the change of C4=O bonding of the FAD isoalloxazine ring. The C4=O bands were induced at -35 deg	2005	1	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Cyanobacteria; Escherichia coli; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Models, Biological; Protein Binding; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature	Hasegawa	Koji
15547263	10.1128/JB.186.23.7914-7925.2004	Positive and negative transcriptional regulators of glutathione-dependent formaldehyde metabolism.	A glutathione (GSH)-dependent pathway is used for formaldehyde metabolism by a wide variety of prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In this pathway, S-hydroxymethylglutathione, produced by the reaction of formaldehyde with the thiolate moiety of glutathione, is the substrate for a GSH-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase (GSH-FDH). While expression of GSH-FDH often increases in the presence of metabolic or exogenous sources of formaldehyde, little is known about the factors that regulate this response. Here, we identify two signal transduction pathways that regulate expression of adhI, the gene encoding GSH-FDH, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The loss of the histidine kinase response regulator pair RfdRS or the histidine kinase RfdS increases adhI transcription in the absence of metabolic sources of formaldehyde. Cells lacking RfdRS further increase adhI expression in the presence of metabolic sources of formaldehyde (methanol), suggesting that this negative regulator of GSH-FDH expression does no	2004	12	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Amino Acid Sequence; Formaldehyde; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Glutathione; Molecular Sequence Data; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Signal Transduction; Transcription, Genetic	Hickman	Jason W
15533042	10.1021/bi048691p	Trapped tyrosyl radical populations in modified reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The photosynthetic reaction center from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been modified such that the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, when it becomes oxidized after light excitation, is capable of oxidizing tyrosine residues. One factor in this ability is a high oxidation-reduction midpoint potential for the dimer, although the location and protein environment of the tyrosine residue appear to be critical as well. These factors were tested in a series of mutants, each of which contains changes, at residues L131, M160, M197, and M210, that give rise to a bacteriochlorophyll dimer with a midpoint potential of at least 800 mV. The protein environment was altered near tyrosine residues that are either present in the wild type or introduced by mutagenesis, focusing on residues that could act as acceptors for the phenolic proton of the tyrosine upon oxidation. These mutations include Ser M190 to His, which is near Tyr L162, the combination of His M193 to Tyr and Arg M164 to His, wh	2005	1	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Darkness; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Glutamic Acid; Light; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Narv..ez	A J
15530435	10.1016/j.bbrc.2004.10.067	Elimination of polarity in the carotenoid terminus promotes the exposure of B850-binding sites (Tyr 44, 45) and ANS-mediated energy transfer in LH2 complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Carotenoids in the peripheral light-harvesting complexes (LH2) of the green mutant (GM309) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were identified as containing neurosporenes, which lack the polar CH(3)O group, compared to spheroidenes in native-LH2 of R. sphaeroides 601. After LH2 complexes were treated with 1-anilino-8-naphthalene sulfonate (ANS), new energy transfer pathways from ANS or tryptophan to carotenoids were discovered in both native- and GM309-LH2. The carotenoid fluorescence intensity of GM309-LH2 was greater than that of native-LH2 when bound with ANS, suggesting that the elimination of polarity in the neurosporene increases the energy transfer from ANS to carotenoid. The fact that two alpha-tyrosines (alpha-Tyr 44, 45, B850-binding sites) in each alpha-apoprotein of GM309-LH2 were more easily modified than those of native-LH2 by N-acetylimidazole (NAI) indicates that the elimination of polarity in the neurosporene terminus increases the exposure of these sites to solution.	2005	2	17	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Anilino Naphthalenesulfonates; Binding Sites; Carotenoids; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Energy Transfer; Imidazoles; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mass Spectrometry; Mutation; Phenotype; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Tryptophan; Tyrosine	Liu	Yuan
15526467		[The temperature dependence of high-resolution 1H NMR spectra of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centres in a temperature range of 25-40 degrees C].	High-resolution 1H-NMR spectra registered within a temperature range of 25-40 degrees C revealed a nonmonotonous dome-shaped temperature dependence of the ratio between integral NMR signal intensities determined at ppm intervals 2.5-4.5 and 0.2-2.5 with a maximum at 30 degrees C. This may be due to RC structural changes accompanying the temperature rise and accelerating the recombination reaction between oxidized bacteriochlorophyll and reduced primary quinone at temperatures above 30 degrees C.	2005	3	25	Biofizika	Biofizika	Electron Transport; Hydrogen; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Timofeev	V P
15526466		[A network of hydrogen bonds in the reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides serves as a regulatory factor of the temperature dependence of the recombination rate constant of photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll and primary quinone acceptors].	The dark recombination rate constant for the photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll (P) and reduced primary quinone acceptor (QA) in the photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) from purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides depends nonmonotonically on temperature. The time of this reaction is approximately 100 ms at 270-300 K and decreases as the temperature both increases and decreases beyond this temperature range. It is known that the dome-shaped dependence of the thermodynamic stability on temperature is an intrinsic feature of many proteins in solution. The experimental results on the nonmonotonous temperature dependence of P+ and QA- recombination rate constant are discussed in terms of general thermodynamic approaches. The dynamic properties of the network of hydrogen bonds that are involved in the relaxation processes accompanying the electron transport are considered as a regulatory factor of the efficiency of electron transfer.	2005	3	25	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacteriochlorophylls; Darkness; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Krasil'nikov	P M
15522874	10.1074/jbc.M411334200	Structure of the dimeric PufX-containing core complex of Rhodobacter blasticus by in situ atomic force microscopy.	We have studied photosynthetic membranes of wild type Rhodobacter blasticus, a closely related strain to the well studied Rhodobacter sphaeroides, using atomic force microscopy. High-resolution atomic force microscopy topographs of both cytoplasmic and periplasmic surfaces of LH2 and RC-LH1-PufX (RC, reaction center) complexes were acquired in situ. The LH2 is a nonameric ring inserted into the membrane with the 9-fold axis perpendicular to the plane. The core complex is an S-shaped dimer composed of two RCs, each encircled by 13 LH1 alpha/beta-heterodimers, and two PufXs. The LH1 assembly is an open ellipse with a topography-free gap of approximately 25 A. The two PufXs, one of each core, are located at the dimer center. Based on our data, we propose a model of the core complex, which provides explanation for the PufX-induced dimerization of the Rhodobacter core complex. The QB site is located facing a approximately 25-A wide gap within LH1, explaining the PufX-favored quinone passage	2005	2	25	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Benzoquinones; Cell Membrane; Cytoplasm; Dimerization; Macromolecular Substances; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Periplasm; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter	Scheuring	Simon
15518570	10.1021/bi048629s	Light-harvesting complex 1 stabilizes P+QB- charge separation in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The kinetics of charge recombination following photoexcitation by a laser pulse have been analyzed in the reaction center-light harvesting complex 1 (RC-LH1) purified from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In RC-LH1 core complexes isolated from photosynthetically grown cells P(+)Q(B)(-) recombines with an average rate constant, k approximately 0.3 s(-1), more than three times smaller than that measured in RC deprived of the LH1 (k approximately 1 s(-1)). A comparable, slowed recombination kinetics is observed in RC-LH1 complexes purified from a pufX-deleted strain. Slowing of the charge recombination kinetics is even more pronounced in RC-LH1 complexes isolated from wild-type semiaerobically grown cells (k approximately 0.2 s(-1)). Since the kinetics of P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination is unaffected by the presence of the antenna, the P(+)Q(B)(-) state appears to be energetically stabilized in core complexes. Determinations of the ubiquinone-10 (UQ(10)) complement associat	2005	1	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Electrochemistry; Electron Transport; Free Radicals; Kinetics; Lasers; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Francia	Francesco
15516587	10.1128/JB.186.22.7726-7735.2004	Responses of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides transcriptome to blue light under semiaerobic conditions.	Exposure to blue light of the facultative phototrophic proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides grown semiaerobically results in repression of the puc and puf operons involved in photosystem formation. To reveal the genome-wide effects of blue light on gene expression and the underlying photosensory mechanisms, transcriptome profiles of R. sphaeroides during blue-light irradiation (for 5 to 135 min) were analyzed. Expression of most photosystem genes was repressed upon irradiation. Downregulation of photosystem development may be used to prevent photooxidative damage occurring when the photosystem, oxygen, and high-intensity light are present simultaneously. The photoreceptor of the BLUF-domain family, AppA, which belongs to the AppA-PpsR antirepressor-repressor system, is essential for maintenance of repression upon prolonged irradiation (S. Braatsch et al., Mol. Microbiol. 45:827-836, 2002). Transcriptome data suggest that the onset of repression is also mediated by the AppA-PpsR syst	2004	12	9	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Oxygen; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Braatsch	Stephan
15491161	10.1021/bi048469k	Heme O synthase and heme A synthase from Bacillus subtilis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides interact in Escherichia coli.	Cytochrome c oxidase requires multiple heme and copper cofactors to catalyze the reduction of molecular oxygen to water. Although significant progress has been made in understanding the transport and incorporation of the copper ions, considerably less is known about the trafficking and insertion of the heme cofactors. Heme O synthase (HOS) and heme A synthase (HAS) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Cox10 and Cox15, respectively) and Bacillus subtilis (CtaB and CtaA, respectively) have been cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Our results demonstrate that HOS copurifies with HAS and that HAS copurifies with HOS, indicating that HOS and HAS interact and may form a physiologically relevant complex in vivo. Consistent with this hypothesis, the presence of HAS alters the total level of farnesylated hemes, providing further evidence that HOS and HAS interact. Our current working model is that HOS and HAS form a complex and that heme O is transferred directly from HOS to HAS. Because of the 	2004	12	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Bacillus subtilis; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Cytochrome b Group; Electron Transport Complex IV; Escherichia coli; Ferrochelatase; Heme; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Protein Prenylation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins	Brown	Brienne M
15485885	10.1074/jbc.M408855200	Chemotaxis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides requires an atypical histidine protein kinase.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a complex chemosensory system comprising two classic CheAs, two atypical CheAs, and eight response regulators (six CheYs and two CheBs). The classic CheAs, CheA(1) and CheA(2), have similar domain structures to Escherichia coli CheA, whereas the atypical CheAs, CheA(3) and CheA(4), lack some of the domains found in E. coli CheA. CheA(2), CheA(3), and CheA(4) are all essential for chemotaxis. Here we demonstrate that CheA(3) and CheA(4) are both unable to undergo ATP-dependent autophosphorylation, however, CheA(4) is able to phosphorylate CheA(3). The in vitro kinetics of this phosphorylation reaction were consistent with a reaction mechanism in which CheA(3) associates with a CheA(4) dimer forming a complex, CheA(3)A(4). To the best of our knowledge, CheA(3)A(4) is the first characterized histidine protein kinase where the subunits are encoded by distinct genes. Selective phosphotransfer was observed from CheA(3)-P to the response regulators CheY(1), CheY(6)	2005	3	14	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chemotaxis; Dimerization; Escherichia coli; Histidine Kinase; Kinetics; Mutagenesis; Phosphorylation; Point Mutation; Protein Kinases; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Porter	Steven L
15470122	10.1099/mic.0.27308-0	Detoxification of hydrogen peroxide and expression of catalase genes in Rhodobacter.	The two related facultatively photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus show different sensitivities against peroxide stress. R. sphaeroides is able to tolerate higher concentrations of H2O2 and exhibits higher catalase activity than R. capsulatus. The katE gene of R. sphaeroides and the katG gene of R. capsulatus are strongly induced by H2O2. This induction depends on the presence of the OxyR protein, which is able to bind to the promoter regions of these genes. In addition to katE R. sphaeroides harbours the katC gene, which shows no significant response to H2O2 but is induced in stationary phase.	2005	1	13	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Catalase; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hydrogen Peroxide; Oxidative Stress; Rhodobacter; Sigma Factor; Transcription Factors	Zeller	Tanja
15461464	10.1021/bi0489356	Protein/lipid interaction in the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center: phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol modify the free energy levels of the quinones.	The role of characteristic phospholipids of native membranes, phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylglycerol (PG), and cardiolipin (CL), was studied in the energetics of the acceptor quinone side in photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The rates of the first, k(AB)(1), and the second, k(AB)(2), electron transfer and that of the charge recombination, k(BP), the free energy levels of Q(A)(-)Q(B) and Q(A)Q(B)(-) states, and the changes of charge compensating protein relaxation were determined in RCs incorporated into artificial lipid bilayer membranes. In RCs embedded in the PC vesicle, k(AB)(1) and k(AB)(2) increased (from 3100 to 4100 s(-1) and from 740 to 3300 s(-1), respectively) and k(BP) decreased (from 0.77 to 0.39 s(-1)) compared to those measured in detergent at pH 7. In PG, k(AB)(1) and k(BP) decreased (to values of 710 and 0.26 s(-1), respectively), while k(AB)(2) increased to 1506 s(-1) at pH 7. The free energy between the Q(A)(-)Q(B) and Q(A)Q(B)(-) sta	2004	11	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acids; Cytochromes; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Lipid Bilayers; Membranes, Artificial; Molecular Conformation; Phosphatidylcholines; Phosphatidylglycerols; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Thermodynamics; Water	Nagy	L..szl..
15461463	10.1021/bi0362727	Dependence of tyrosine oxidation in highly oxidizing bacterial reaction centers on pH and free-energy difference.	The pH and temperature dependences of tyrosine oxidation were measured in reaction centers from mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing a tyrosine residue near a highly oxidizing bacteriochlorophyll dimer. Under continuous illumination, a rapid increase in the absorption change at 420 nm was observed because of the formation of a charge-separated state involving the oxidized dimer and reduced primary quinone, followed by a slow absorption decrease attributed to tyrosine oxidation. Both the amplitude and rate of the slow absorption change showed a pH dependency, indicating that, at low pH, the rate of tyrosine oxidation is limited by the transfer of the phenolic proton to a nearby base. Below 17 degrees C, the rate of the slow absorption change had a strong exponential dependence on the temperature, indicating a high activation energy. At higher pH and temperature, the overall rate of tyrosyl formation appears to be limited by a proposed conformational change in the reaction cente	2004	11	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Darkness; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Mutation; Oxidants; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Tyrosine	K..lm..n	L
15386104	10.1007/s00284-004-4339-y	Properties of an intracellular poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) depolymerase (PhaZ1) from Rhodobacter spheroides.	The gene of an intracellular poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (iPHB) depolymerase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was cloned and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence of the cloned gene was homologous to that of the iPHB depolymerase gene from Ralstonia eutropha H16 (phaZ1(Reu)) and the gene was designated phaZ1(Rsh). PhaZ1(Rsh) was purified from E. coli harboring an expression vector containing phaZ1(Rsh) and its properties were examined. PhaZ1(Rsh) degraded amorphous PHB granules, and the 3-hydroxybutyrate tetramer and pentamer, but not crystalline PHB granules. The enzyme activity was inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate and Triton X-100. Diisopropylfluorophosphate, phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride, and dithiothreitol had no effect on the activity. A mutant having alanine instead of cysteine at 178 lost the activity. These results show that PhaZ1(Rsh) is a quite similar enzyme to PhaZ1(Reu).	2004	11	4	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Base Sequence; Carboxylic Ester Hydrolases; Catalytic Domain; Cloning, Molecular; Cysteine; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Genes, Bacterial; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kobayashi	Teruyuki
15385565	10.1074/jbc.M407549200	Transmembrane charge separation during the ferryl-oxo -&gt; oxidized transition in a nonpumping mutant of cytochrome c oxidase.	The N139D mutant of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides retains full steady state oxidase activity but completely lacks proton translocation coupled to turnover in reconstituted liposomes (Pawate, A. S., Morgan, J., Namslauer, A., Mills, D., Brzezinski, P., Ferguson-Miller, S., and Gennis, R. B. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 13417-13423). Here, time-resolved electron transfer and vectorial charge translocation in the ferryl-oxo --&gt; oxidized transition (transfer of the 4th electron in the catalytic cycle) have been studied with the N139D mutant using ruthenium(II)-tris-bipyridyl complex as a photoactive single-electron donor. With the wild type oxidase, the flash-induced generation of Deltaphi in the ferryl-oxo --&gt; oxidized transition begins with rapid vectorial electron transfer from CuA to heme a (tau approximately 15 micros), followed by two protonic phases, referred to as the intermediate (0.4 ms) and slow electrogenic phases (1.5 ms). In the N139D mutant, only a singl	2005	2	1	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Deuterium Oxide; Electrochemistry; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Siletsky	Sergey A
15382676	10.1360/02yc0254	Acquirement and characterization of a carotenoid mutant (GM309) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601.	A green mutant was obtained among the chemically induced mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601 (RS601) and named GM309. A blue shift of 20 nm of the carotenoid absorption spectrum was found in the light-harvesting complex II (LH2) of GM309. Different from LH2 of RS601, it was found that the carotenoids in GM309-LH2 changed to be neurosporene by mutation. Neurosporene lacks a conjugate double bond, compared with the spheroidene in RS601-LH2 which has ten conjugate double bonds. As shown by absorption and circular dichroism spectroscopy, the overall structure of GM309-LH2 is little affected by this change. From fluorescence emission spectra, it is found that GM309-LH2 can transfer energy from carotenoids to Bchl-B850 without any change in efficiency. But the efficiency of energy transfer from B800 to B850 in GM309-LH2 is decreased to be 42% of that of the native. This work would provide a novel method to investigate the mechanism of excitation energy transfer in LH2.	2004	10	25	Sci China C Life Sci	Science in China. Series C, Life sciences	Carotenoids; Circular Dichroism; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Phenotype; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Yuan	Liu
15377269	10.1023/b:biry.0000040221.43531.00	Temporary stabilization of electron on quinone acceptor side of reaction centers from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type and mutant SA(L223) depending on duration of light activation.	The dark reduction of photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll (P+) by photoreduced secondary quinone acceptor (QB-) in isolated reaction centers (RC) from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type and mutant strain SA(L223) depending on the duration of light activation of RC was studied. The kinetics of the dark reduction of P+ decreased with increasing light duration, which is probably due to conformational changes occurring under prolonged light activation in RC from the wild type bacterium. In RC from bacteria of the mutant strain in which protonatable amino acid Ser L223 near QB is substituted by Ala, the dependence of reduction kinetics of P+ on duration of light was not observed. Such dependence, however, became observable after addition of cryoprotectors, namely glycerol and dimethylsulfoxide, to the RC samples from the mutant strain. It was concluded that substitution of Ser L223 with Ala disturbs the native mechanism of electrostatic stabilization of the electron in the RC qui	2005	6	8	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electrons; Kinetics; Light; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Knox	P P
15371444	10.1074/jbc.M405887200	Similarities between the abiotic reduction of selenite with glutathione and the dissimilatory reaction mediated by Rhodospirillum rubrum and Escherichia coli.	Various mechanisms have been proposed to explain the biological dissimilatory reduction of selenite (SeO3(2-)) to elemental selenium (Se(o)), although none is without controversy. Glutathione, the most abundant thiol in the eukaryotic cells, the cyanobacteria, and the alpha, beta, and gamma groups of the proteobacteria, has long been suspected to be involved in selenium metabolism. Experiments with the phototrophic alpha proteobacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum showed that the rate of selenite reduction was decreased when bacteria synthesized lower than normal levels of glutathione, and in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Escherichia coli the reaction was reported to induce glutathione reductase. In the latter organism superoxide dismutase was also induced in cells grown in the presence of selenite, indicating that superoxide anions (O2-) were produced. These observations led us to investigate the abiotic (chemical) reduction of selenite by glutathione and to compare the features of this react	2005	1	11	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cytochromes c; Escherichia coli; Glutathione; Glutathione Reductase; Hydrogen Peroxide; Kinetics; Light; Microscopy, Electron; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Models, Chemical; Organoselenium Compounds; Oxygen; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Selenium; Sodium Selenite; Superoxide Dismutase; Time Factors	Kessi	Janine
15371424	10.1074/jbc.M406502200	NapF is a cytoplasmic iron-sulfur protein required for Fe-S cluster assembly in the periplasmic nitrate reductase.	The periplasmic nitrate reductase (Nap) is wide-spread in proteobacteria. NapA, the nitrate reductase catalytic subunit, contains a Mo-bisMGD cofactor and one [4Fe-4S] cluster. The nap gene clusters in many bacteria, including Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM158, contain an napF gene, disruption of which drastically decreases both in vitro and in vivo nitrate reductase activities. In spite its importance in the Nap system, NapF has never been characterized biochemically, and its role remains unknown. The NapF protein has four polycysteine clusters that suggest that it is an iron-sulfur-containing protein. In the present study, a His(6)-tagged NapF protein was overproduced in Escherichia coli and purified anaerobically. The purified NapF protein was used to obtain polyclonal antibodies raised in rabbit, and cellular fractionation of R. sphaeroides followed by immunoprobing with anti-NapF antibodies revealed that the native NapF protein is located in the cytoplasm. This contrasts with the per	2005	2	7	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Iron; Molecular Sequence Data; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Periplasmic Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, Protein; Spectrophotometry; Sulfur; Time Factors	Olmo-Mira	M Francisca
15368575	10.1002/cbic.200400012	NMR structural model of the interaction of herbicides with the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The interaction of the herbicides acifluorfen and paraquat with the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied by NMR relaxation measurements. Interaction in aqueous solution has been demonstrated by evaluating motional features of the bound form through cross-relaxation terms of protons at fixed distances on the herbicides. Contributions to longitudinal nonselective relaxation rates different from the proton-proton dipolar relaxation were inferred, most probably due to paramagnetic effects originating from the high-spin nonheme Fe(II) ion in the reaction center. Paramagnetic contributions to proton relaxation rates were converted into distance constraints in order to build a model for the interaction. The models place paraquat in the QB site, where most herbicides interact, in agreement with docking calculations, whereas acifluorfen was placed between the metal and the QB site, as also demonstrated by the induced paramagnetic shifts. Acifluorfen could	2005	3	9	Chembiochem	Chembiochem : a European journal of chemical biology	Crystallography, X-Ray; Herbicides; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Nitrobenzoates; Paraquat; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	D'Amelio	Nicola
15366932	10.1021/bi0490845	Studies on the interaction of NADPH with Rhodobacter sphaeroides biotin sulfoxide reductase.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides biotin sulfoxide reductase (BSOR) contains the bis(molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide)molybdenum cofactor and catalyzes the reduction of D-biotin-D-sulfoxide to biotin. This protein is the only member of the dimethyl sulfoxide reductase family of molybdopterin enzymes that utilizes NADPH as the direct electron donor to the catalytic Mo center. Kinetic studies using stopped-flow spectrophotometry indicate that BSOR reduction by NADPH (&gt;1000 s(-1)) is faster than steady-state turnover (440 s(-1)) and has shown that BSOR reduction occurs in concert with NADPH oxidation with no indication of a Mo(V) intermediate species. Because no crystallographic structure is currently available for BSOR, a protein structure was modeled using the structures for R. sphaeroides dimethyl sulfoxide reductase, Rhodobacter capsulatus dimethyl sulfoxide reductase, and Shewanella massilia trimethylamine N-oxide reductase as the templates. A potential NADPH-binding site was identified a	2004	10	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding, Competitive; DNA Mutational Analysis; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; NADP; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Protein Binding; Reducing Agents; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Shewanella; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Nelson	Kimberly Johnson
15339929	10.1074/jbc.M406497200	The role of extra fragment at the C-terminal of cytochrome b (Residues 421-445) in the cytochrome bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Sequence alignment of cytochrome b of the cytochrome bc1 complex from various sources reveals that bacterial cytochrome b contain an extra fragment at the C terminus. To study the role of this fragment in bacterial cytochrome bc1 complex, Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants expressing His-tagged cytochrome bc1 complexes with progressive deletion from this fragment (residues 421-445) were generated and characterized. The cytbDelta-(433-445) bc1 complex, in which 13 residues from the C-terminal end of this fragment are deleted, has electron transfer activity, subunit composition, and physical properties similar to those of the complement complex, indicating that this region of the extra fragment is not essential. In contrast, the electron transfer activity, binding of cytochrome b, ISP, and subunit IV to cytochrome c1, redox potentials of cytochromes b and c1 in the cytbDelta-(427-445), cytbDelta-(425-445), and cytbDelta-(421-445) mutant complexes, in which 19, 21, or all residues of this fr	2004	12	28	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Blotting, Western; Chromatophores; Complement System Proteins; Cytochromes b; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrons; Escherichia coli; Gene Deletion; Humans; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Mass Spectrometry; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Potentiometry; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Liu	Xiaoying
15328368	10.1093/nar/gkh794	Thioredoxin can influence gene expression by affecting gyrase activity.	The expression of many genes of facultatively photosynthetic bacteria of the genus Rhodobacter is controlled by the oxygen tension. Among these are the genes of the puf and puc operons, which encode proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus. Previous results revealed that thioredoxins are involved in the regulated expression of these operons, but it remained unsolved as to the mechanisms by which thioredoxins affect puf and puc expression. Here we show that reduced TrxA of Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides and oxidized TrxC of R.capsulatus interact with DNA gyrase and alter its DNA supercoiling activity. While TrxA enhances supercoiling, TrxC exerts a negative effect on this activity. Furthermore, inhibition of gyrase activity strongly reduces puf and puc expression. Our results reveal a new signaling pathway by which oxygen can affect the expression of bacterial genes.	2004	9	8	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; DNA Gyrase; DNA, Superhelical; Enzyme Inhibitors; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Mutation; Novobiocin; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Thioredoxins; Topoisomerase II Inhibitors; Two-Hybrid System Techniques	Li	Kuanyu
15292515	10.1073/pnas.0403547101	A eukaryotic BLUF domain mediates light-dependent gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The flavin-binding BLUF domain functions as a blue-light receptor in eukaryotes and bacteria. In the photoreceptor protein photo-activated adenylyl cyclase (PAC) from the flagellate Euglena gracilis, the BLUF domain is linked to an adenylyl cyclase domain. The PAC protein mediates a photophobic response. In the AppA protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the BLUF domain is linked to a downstream domain without similarity to known proteins. AppA functions as a transcriptional antirepressor, controlling photosynthesis gene expression in the purple bacterium R. sphaeroides in response to light and oxygen. We fused the PACalpha1-BLUF domain from Euglena to the C terminus of AppA. Our results show that the hybrid protein is fully functional in light-dependent gene repression in R. sphaeroides, despite only approximately 30% identity between the eukaryotic and the bacterial BLUF domains. Furthermore, the bacterial BLUF domain and the C terminus of AppA can transmit the light signal even when ex	2004	9	23	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Euglena; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Han	Yuchen
15285666	10.1021/ic035216r	Resonance Raman detection of the Fe2+-C-N modes in heme-copper oxidases: a probe of the active site.	Resonance Raman spectroscopy has been employed to investigate the reduced cyano complexes of cytochrome aa(3) from bovine heart and Rhodobacter sphaeroides and of cytochrome bo(3) from E. coli. In the aa(3)-type oxidases, the frequency of the Fe-CN stretching mode is located at 468 cm(-1), and the bending Fe-C-N vibration, at 500 cm(-1). The fully reduced cytochrome bo(3)-CN complex gives rise to a stretching vibration at 468 cm(-1), a bending vibration at 491 cm(-1), and a stretching C-N vibration at 2037 cm(-1). The observed differences between aa(3) and bo(3) oxidases in the frequencies of the Fe-C-N group suggest a quantitative difference in the structure of the His-heme a(3)(2+)/Cu(B)(1+) and His-heme o(3)(2+)/Cu(B)(1+) binuclear pockets upon CN- binding.	2004	9	2	Inorg Chem	Inorganic chemistry	Animals; Binding Sites; Cattle; Cyanides; Cytochrome b Group; Cytochromes; Electron Transport Complex IV; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Heart; Heme; Iron; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Pinakoulaki	Eftychia
15282174	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.04.016	Probing light-induced conformational transitions in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers embedded in trehalose-water amorphous matrices.	The coupling between electron transfer and protein dynamics has been studied in photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides by embedding the protein into room temperature solid trehalose-water matrices. Electron transfer kinetics from the primary quinone acceptor (Q(A)(-)) to the photoxidized donor (P(+)) were measured as a function of the duration of photoexcitation from 20 ns (laser flash) to more than 1 min. Decreasing the water content of the matrix down to approximately 5x10(3) water molecules per RC causes a reversible four-times acceleration of P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination after the laser pulse. By comparing the broadly distributed kinetics observed under these conditions with the ones measured in glycerol-water mixtures at cryogenic temperatures, we conclude that RC relaxation from the dark-adapted to the light-adapted state and thermal fluctuations among conformational substates are hindered in the room temperature matrix over the time scale of tens of milli	2004	12	7	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Light; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose; Water	Francia	Francesco
15276828	10.1016/j.jmb.2004.06.018	Interactions between the Rhodobacter sphaeroides ECF sigma factor, sigma(E), and its anti-sigma factor, ChrR.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides sigma(E) is a member of the extra cytoplasmic function sigma factor (ECF) family, whose members have been shown to regulate gene expression in response to a variety of signals. The functions of ECF family members are commonly regulated by a specific, reversible interaction with a cognate anti-sigma factor. In R.sphaeroides, sigma(E) activity is inhibited by ChrR, a member of a newly discovered family of zinc containing anti-sigma factors. We used gel filtration chromatography to gain insight into the mechanism by which ChrR inhibits sigma(E) activity. We found that formation of the sigma(E):ChrR complex inhibits the ability of sigma(E) to form a stable complex with core RNA polymerase. Since the sigma(E):ChrR complex inhibits the ability of the sigma factor to bind RNA polymerase, we sought to identify amino acid substitutions in sigma(E) that altered the sensitivity of this sigma factor to inhibition by ChrR. This analysis identified single amino acid changes i	2004	9	3	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chromatography, Gel; Conserved Sequence; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Binding; Protein Interaction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Sigma Factor; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Zinc	Anthony	Jennifer R
15268371	10.1063/1.1637585	Exciton exciton annihilation dynamics in chromophore complexes. II. Intensity dependent transient absorption of the LH2 antenna system.	Using the multiexciton density matrix theory of excitation energy transfer in chromophore complexes developed in a foregoing paper [J. Chem. Phys. 118, 746 (2003)], the computation of ultrafast transient absorption spectra is presented. Beside static disorder and standard mechanisms of excitation energy dissipation the theory incorporates exciton exciton annihilation (EEA) processes. To elucidate signatures of EEA in intensity dependent transient absorption data the approach is applied to the B850 ring of the LH2 found in rhodobacter sphaeroides. As main indications for two-exciton population and resulting EEA we found (i) a weakening of the dominant single-exciton bleaching structure in the transient absorption, and (ii) an intermediate suppression of long-wavelength and short-wavelength shoulders around the bleaching structure. The suppression is caused by stimulated emission from the two-exciton to the one-exciton state and the return of the shoulders follows from a depletion of two	2006	5	8	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Absorption; Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Linear Energy Transfer; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Radiation Dosage; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bruggemann	B
15265732	10.1016/j.ab.2004.04.010	"Cystope tagging" for labeling and detection of recombinant protein expression.	A labeling and detection method, based on the addition of a single cysteine residue at the C terminus of a recombinant protein and the subsequent sulfhydryl-specific Michael addition to the double bond of maleimide and its derivatives, was developed. The method was named "cystope tagging." Sorbit dehydrogenase (SDH) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase family of proteins that contains three inherent cysteines, was used as a model recombinant protein. By labeling with fluorescein-maleimide, it was demonstrated that only the single accessory cysteine is accessible under nonreducing conditions. After the addition of beta-mercaptoethanol, the inherent cysteines of SDH were also detectable by coupling to fluorescein-maleimide. The data were obtained using Autodisplay, an efficient surface expression system in Escherichia coli, but the method presented in this article represents a rather general solution for analyzing the expression of recombinant proteins,	2005	2	23	Anal Biochem	Analytical biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; DNA, Recombinant; L-Iditol 2-Dehydrogenase; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jose	Joachim
15262956	10.1128/JB.186.15.5172-5177.2004	Biochemical study of multiple CheY response regulators of the chemotactic pathway of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The six copies of the response regulator CheY from Rhodobacter sphaeroides bind to the switch protein FliM. Phosphorylation by acetyl phosphate (AcP) was detected by tryptophan fluorescence quenching in three of the four CheYs that contain this residue. Autophosphorylation with Ac(32)P was observed in five CheY proteins. We also show that all of the cheY genes are expressed simultaneously; therefore, in vivo all of the CheY proteins could bind to FliM to control the chemotactic response. Consequently, we hypothesize that in this complex chemotactic system, the binding of some CheY proteins to FliM, does not necessarily imply switching of the flagellar motor.	2004	8	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Phosphorylation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ferr..	Axelle
15256566	10.1099/mic.0.26940-0	The nitrogen-fixing gene (nifH) of Rhodopseudomonas palustris: a case of lateral gene transfer?	Nitrogen fixation is catalysed by some photosynthetic bacteria. This paper presents a phylogenetic comparison of a nitrogen fixation gene (nifH) with the aim of elucidating the processes underlying the evolutionary history of Rhodopseudomonas palustris. In the NifH phylogeny, strains of Rps. palustris were placed in close association with Rhodobacter spp. and other phototrophic purple non-sulfur bacteria belonging to the alpha-Proteobacteria, separated from its close relatives Bradyrhizobium japonicum and the phototrophic rhizobia (Bradyrhizobium spp. IRBG 2, IRBG 228, IRBG 230 and BTAi 1) as deduced from the 16S rRNA phylogeny. The close association of the strains of Rps. palustris with those of Rhodobacter and Rhodovulum, as well as Rhodospirillum rubrum, was supported by the mol% G+C of their nifH gene and by the signature sequences found in the sequence alignment. In contrast, comparison of a number of informational and operational genes common to Rps. palustris CGA009, B. japonicu	2004	9	9	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Alphaproteobacteria; Amino Acid Sequence; DNA, Ribosomal; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genes, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Nitrogen Fixation; Oxidoreductases; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodopseudomonas; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Cantera	Jose Jason L
15251460	10.1016/j.febslet.2004.06.042	Temperature and cryoprotectant influence secondary quinone binding position in bacterial reaction centers.	We have determined the first de novo position of the secondary quinone QB in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center (RC) using phases derived by the single wavelength anomalous dispersion method from crystals with selenomethionine substitution. We found that in frozen RC crystals, QB occupies primarily the proximal binding site. In contrast, our room temperature structure showed that QB is largely in the distal position. Both data sets were collected in dark-adapted conditions. We estimate that the occupancy of the QB site is 80% with a proximal: distal ratio of 4:1 in frozen RC crystals. We could not separate the effect of freezing from the effect of the cryoprotectants ethylene glycol or glycerol. These results could have far-reaching implications in structure/function studies of electron transfer in the acceptor quinone complex because the above are the most commonly used cryoprotectants in spectroscopic experiments.	2004	9	3	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Cryoprotective Agents; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electrons; Ethylene Glycol; Glycerol; Light; Models, Chemical; Phosphates; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Potassium Compounds; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selenomethionine; Temperature; X-Ray Diffraction	Pokkuluri	P Raj
15231807	10.1128/JB.186.14.4748-4758.2004	Construction and validation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 DNA microarray: transcriptome flexibility at diverse growth modes.	A high-density oligonucleotide DNA microarray, a genechip, representing the 4.6-Mb genome of the facultative phototrophic proteobacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, was custom-designed and manufactured by Affymetrix, Santa Clara, Calif. The genechip contains probe sets for 4,292 open reading frames (ORFs), 47 rRNA and tRNA genes, and 394 intergenic regions. The probe set sequences were derived from the genome annotation generated by Oak Ridge National Laboratory after extensive revision, which was based primarily upon codon usage characteristic of this GC-rich bacterium. As a result of the revision, numerous missing ORFs were uncovered, nonexistent ORFs were deleted, and misidentified start codons were corrected. To evaluate R. sphaeroides transcriptome flexibility, expression profiles for three diverse growth modes--aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration in the dark, and anaerobic photosynthesis--were generated. Expression levels of one-fifth to one-third of the R. sphaeroide	2004	8	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Adaptation, Physiological; Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; DNA, Intergenic; Energy Metabolism; Gene Expression Profiling; Genes, Bacterial; Genes, rRNA; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; RNA, Transfer; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Pappas	Christopher T
15212802	10.1016/j.femsle.2004.05.034	Expression and characteristics of the gene encoding azoreductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737.	A gene that encodes a protein with azoreductase activity was obtained by PCR amplification from Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737. The enzyme, with a molecular weight of 18.7 kD, was heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and its azoreductase activity was characterized. Furthermore, the reduction mechanism of azo dyes catalyzed by the azoreductase was studied in detail. The presence of a hydrazo-intermediate was identified, which provided a convincing evidence for the assumption that azo dyes were degraded via an incomplete reduction stage.	2004	8	24	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Azo Compounds; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Cloning, Molecular; Coloring Agents; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Industrial Microbiology; Kinetics; Magnesium; Mass Spectrometry; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Nitroreductases; Oxygen; Paper; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Temperature; Zinc	Bin	Yan
15212556	10.1021/ja038092q	Variation of Ser-L223 hydrogen bonding with the QB redox state in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Ser-L223 is close to ubiquinone (Q(B)) in the B-branch of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (bRC) from Rhodobacter (Rb) sphaeroides. Therefore, the presence of a hydrogen bond (H bond) between the two was naturally proposed from the crystal structure. The hydrogen bonding pattern of Q(B) from the light-exposed structure was studied by generating hydrogen atom coordinates based on the CHARMM force field. In the Q(B) neutral charge state (Q(B)(0)), no H bond was found between the oxygen of the OH group from Ser-L223 and the carbonyl oxygen of Q(B) that is distal to the non-heme iron. In the reduced state (Q(B)(-)), however, Ser-L213 was found to form an H bond with Q(B) only when Asp-L213 is protonated by more than 0.75 H(+). This indicates the significance of the protonation of Asp-L213 in forming an H bond between Ser-L223 and Q(B). We found that the driving force to form the H bond between Ser-L223 and Q(B) is enhanced by the positively charged Arg-L217. The calculated Q(B)	2004	9	7	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Aspartic Acid; Binding Sites; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine; Spectrophotometry; Ubiquinone	Ishikita	Hiroshi
15196036	10.1021/bi0496440	Reconstitution of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cbb3-PrrBA signal transduction pathway in vitro.	The PrrBA two-component system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, which is composed of the PrrB histidine kinase and the PrrA response regulator, controls the expression of all of the photosynthesis genes, either directly or indirectly, in response to changes in oxygen tension. In vivo under aerobic conditions it is the cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase which generates an inhibitory signal preventing the accumulation of activated PrrA. Using purified cbb(3) cytochrome c oxidase, PrrB, and PrrA, we demonstrate in vitro that the cbb(3) oxidase inhibits PrrB activity by apparently increasing the intrinsic PrrB phosphatase activity, which dephosphorylates phosphorylated PrrA without alteration of the PrrB kinase activity. The transmembrane domain of PrrB is required for the enhancement of PrrB phosphatase activity by the cbb(3) oxidase. Full-length PrrB has a significantly greater ability to phosphorylate PrrA than does truncated PrrB lacking the transmembrane domain. This is at least in part due	2004	8	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Electron Transport Complex IV; Histidine Kinase; Phosphorylation; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Oh	Jeong-Il
15187184	10.1128/MMBR.68.2.263-279.2004	RegB/RegA, a highly conserved redox-responding global two-component regulatory system.	The Reg regulon from Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes proteins involved in numerous energy-generating and energy-utilizing processes such as photosynthesis, carbon fixation, nitrogen fixation, hydrogen utilization, aerobic and anaerobic respiration, denitrification, electron transport, and aerotaxis. The redox signal that is detected by the membrane-bound sensor kinase, RegB, appears to originate from the aerobic respiratory chain, given that mutations in cytochrome c oxidase result in constitutive RegB autophosphorylation. Regulation of RegB autophosphorylation also involves a redox-active cysteine that is present in the cytosolic region of RegB. Both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms of the cognate response regulator RegA are capable of activating or repressing a variety of genes in the regulon. Highly conserved homologues of RegB and RegA have been found in a wide number of photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic bacteria, with evidence suggesting that	2004	7	12	Microbiol Mol Biol Rev	Microbiology and molecular biology reviews : MMBR	Amino Acid Sequence; Conserved Sequence; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Phosphorylation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Kinases; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Regulon; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Elsen	Sylvie
15185374	10.1002/cbic.200300783	Exploring recombinant flavonoid biosynthesis in metabolically engineered Escherichia coli.	Flavonoids are important plant-specific secondary metabolites synthesized from 4-coumaroyl coenzyme A (CoA), derived from the general phenylpropanoid pathway, and three malonyl-CoAs. The synthesis involves a plant type III polyketide synthase, chalcone synthase. We report the cloning and coexpression in Escherichia coli of phenylalanine ammonia lyase, cinnamate-4-hydroxylase, 4-coumarate:CoA ligase, and chalcone synthase from the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Simultaneous expression of all four genes resulted in a blockage after the first enzymatic step caused by the presence of nonfunctional cinnamate-4-hydroxylase. To overcome this problem we fed exogenous 4-coumaric acid to induced cultures. We observed high-level production of the flavanone naringenin as a result. We were also able to produce phloretin by feeding cultures with 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid. Feeding with ferulic or caffeic acid did not yield the corresponding flavanones. We have also cloned and partially cha	2004	7	30	Chembiochem	Chembiochem : a European journal of chemical biology	Arabidopsis; Cell Division; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Coumaric Acids; Culture Media, Conditioned; Escherichia coli; Flavanones; Flavonoids; Genetic Engineering; Molecular Structure; Phenylpropionates; Plasmids; Propionates	Watts	Kevin T
15185373	10.1002/cbic.200300774	Autodisplay of active sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) yields a whole cell biocatalyst for the synthesis of rare sugars.	Whole cell biocatalysts are attractive technological tools for the regio- and enantioselective synthesis of products, especially from substrates with several identical reactive groups. In the present study, a whole cell biocatalyst for the synthesis of rare sugars from polyalcohols was constructed. For this purpose, sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a member of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) family, was expressed on the surface of Escherichia coli using Autodisplay. Autodisplay is an efficient surface display system for Gram-negative bacteria and is based on the autotransporter secretion pathway. Transport of SDH to the outer membrane was monitored by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting of different cell fractions. The surface exposure of the enzyme could be verified by immunofluorescence microscopy and fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). The activity of whole cells displaying SDH at the surface was determined in an optical test. Specific activ	2004	7	30	Chembiochem	Chembiochem : a European journal of chemical biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Base Sequence; Blotting, Western; Carbohydrates; Catalysis; Cell Membrane; Escherichia coli; Flow Cytometry; Fluorescent Antibody Technique; L-Iditol 2-Dehydrogenase; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Transport; Rabbits; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Jose	Joachim
15184575	10.1099/mic.0.26971-0	The role of dor gene products in controlling the P2 promoter of the cytochrome c2 gene, cycA, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	This study explores the regulatory networks controlling anaerobic energy production by the facultative phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The specific aim was to determine why activity of the P2 promoter for the gene (cycA) encoding the essential photosynthetic electron carrier, cytochrome c(2), is decreased when the alternative electron acceptor DMSO is added to photosynthetically grown cells. The presence of DMSO is believed to activate the DorR response regulator, which controls expression of proteins required to reduce DMSO. A DorR(-) strain showed no change in cycA P2 promoter activity when DMSO was added to photosynthetic cells, indicating that DorR was required for the decreased expression in wild-type cells. To test if DorR acted directly at this promoter to change gene expression, recombinant DorR was purified and studied in vitro. Preparations of DorR that were active at other target promoters showed no detectable interaction with cycA P2, suggesting that this protein is not	2004	8	26	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Culture Media; Cytochromes c2; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Tavano	Christine L
15184574	10.1099/mic.0.27023-0	Phototrophic utilization of taurine by the purple nonsulfur bacteria Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Taurine metabolism by two phototrophically grown purple nonsulfur bacteria enrichment isolates has been examined. Rhodopseudomonas palustris (strain Tau1) grows with taurine as a sole electron donor, sulfur and nitrogen source during photoautotrophic growth. Rhodobacter sphaeroides (strain Tau3) grows on the compound as sole electron donor, sulfur and nitrogen source, and partial carbon source, in the presence of CO(2) during photoheterotrophic growth. Both organisms utilize an inducible taurine-pyruvate aminotransferase and a sulfoacetaldehyde acetyltransferase. The products of this metabolism are bisulfite and acetyl phosphate. Bisulfite ultimately was oxidized to sulfate, but this was not an adequate source of electrons for photometabolism. Experiments using either [U-(14)C]taurine or (14)CO(2) demonstrated that Rb. sphaeroides Tau3 assimilated the carbon from approximately equimolar amounts of taurine and exogenous CO(2). The taurine-carbon assimilation was not diminished by excess	2004	8	26	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bicarbonates; Carbon Dioxide; Carbon Radioisotopes; Culture Media; Light; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Sulfur; Taurine	Novak	Ryan T
15184132	10.1128/AEM.70.6.3360-3369.2004	Genome organization and localization of the pufLM genes of the photosynthesis reaction center in phylogenetically diverse marine Alphaproteobacteria.	Genome organization, plasmid content and localization of the pufLM genes of the photosynthesis reaction center were studied by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) in marine phototrophic Alphaproteobacteria. Both anaerobic phototrophs (Rhodobacter veldkampii and Rhodobacter sphaeroides) and strictly aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs from the Roseobacter-Sulfitobacter-Silicibacter clade (Roseivivax halodurans, Roseobacter litoralis, Staleya guttiformis, Roseovarius tolerans, and five new strains isolated from dinoflagellate cultures) were investigated. The complete genome size was estimated for R. litoralis DSM6996(T) to be 4,704 kb, including three linear plasmids. All strains contained extrachromosomal elements of various conformations (linear or circular) and lengths (between 4.35 and 368 kb). In strain DFL-12, a member of a putative new genus isolated from a culture of the toxic dinoflagellate Prorocentrum lima, seven linear plasmids were found, together comprising 860 kb of genetic	2004	8	10	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Chromosome Mapping; Electrophoresis, Gel, Pulsed-Field; Genome, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Phylogeny; Plasmids; Restriction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Roseobacter; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Pradella	Silke
15182169	10.1021/bi049342y	Identification of a novel protonation pattern for carboxylic acids upon Q(B) photoreduction in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center mutants at Asp-L213 and Glu-L212 sites.	In the reaction center from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, light energy is rapidly converted to chemical energy through coupled electron-proton transfer to a buried quinone molecule Q(B). Involved in the proton uptake steps are carboxylic acids, which have characteristic infrared vibrations that are observable using light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy. Upon formation, Q(B)(-) induces protonation of Glu-L212, located within 5 A of Q(B), resulting in a IR signal at 1728 cm(-1). However, no other IR signal is observed within the classic absorption range of protonated carboxylic acids (1770-1700 cm(-1)). In particular, no signal for Asp-L213 is found despite its juxtaposition to Q(B) and importance for proton uptake on the second electron-transfer step. In an attempt to uncover the reason behind this lack of signal, the microscopic electrostatic environment in the vicinity of Q(B) was modified by interchanging Asp and Glu at	2004	8	30	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Aspartic Acid; Benzoquinones; Carboxylic Acids; Glutamic Acid; Light; Molecular Structure; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Nabedryk	Eliane
15178480	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.03.006	Quantum molecular dynamics simulation of proton transfer in cytochrome c oxidase.	Proton transfer/translocation is studied in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) by a combination of quantum mechanics (QM) for the transferring protons and classical molecular dynamics (MD) for the protein and solvent. The possibility of a glutamate, Glu286 in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering scheme, acting as a rely point for proton translocation is investigated. The MD finds a hydrogen-bonded cycle of two waters and the carboxylate oxygens of Glu286. The possibility of protonating Glu286 to form neutral GluH is studied and we find that, as experimentally inferred, this glutamate can spend most of its time as GluH. Since translocation relies on the presence of water chains within CcO channels, MD is used to assess their formation. Glu286 and Mg(2+) can be connected by continuous hydrogen-bonded chains that are robust, though transient, and the protein appears spongy above (toward the outer membrane) the Mg(2+). In contrast, the D-channel spanning Asp132, close to the inner membrane surfac	2004	7	21	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Asparagine; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen Bonding; Magnesium; Models, Molecular; Oxygen; Protein Conformation; Protons; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Water	Cukier	R I
15178474	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.02.005	Characterization of the bonding interactions of Q(B) upon photoreduction via A-branch or B-branch electron transfer in mutant reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers (RCs) containing the mutation Ala M260 to Trp (AM260W), transmembrane electron transfer along the full-length of the A-branch of cofactors is prevented by the loss of the Q(A) ubiquinone, but it is possible to generate the radical pair P(+)H(A)(-) by A-branch electron transfer or the radical pair P(+)Q(B)(-) by B-branch electron transfer. In the present study, FTIR spectroscopy was used to provide direct evidence for the complete absence of the Q(A) ubiquinone in mutant RCs with the AM260W mutation. Light-induced FTIR difference spectroscopy of isolated RCs was also used to probe the neutral Q(B) and the semiquinone Q(B)(-) states in two B-branch active mutants, a double AM260W-LM214H mutant, denoted WH, and a quadruple mutant, denoted WAAH, in which the AM260W, LM214H, and EL212A-DL213A mutations were combined. The data were compared to those obtained with wild-type (Wt) RCs and the double EL212A-DL213A (denoted AA) mutant which exhibit the 	2004	7	21	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Carbon Isotopes; Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Tryptophan; Ubiquinone	Breton	Jacques
15150275	10.1074/jbc.M404562200	Protein splicing and auto-cleavage of bacterial intein-like domains lacking a C'-flanking nucleophilic residue.	Bacterial intein-like (BIL) domains are newly identified homologs of intein protein-splicing domains. The two known types of BIL domains together with inteins and hedgehog (Hog) auto-processing domains form the Hog/intein (HINT) superfamily. BIL domains are distinct from inteins and Hogs in sequence, phylogenetic distribution, and host protein type, but little is known about their biochemical activity. Here we experimentally study the auto-processing activity of four BIL domains. An A-type BIL domain from Clostridium thermocellum showed both protein-splicing and auto-cleavage activities. The splicing is notable, because this domain has a native Ala C'-flanking residue rather than a nucleophilic residue, which is absolutely necessary for intein protein splicing. B-type BIL domains from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus cleaved their N' or C' ends. We propose an alternative protein-splicing mechanism for the A-type BIL domains. After an initial N-S acyl shift, creating a	2004	9	10	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Alternative Splicing; Amino Acid Motifs; Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Cell-Free System; Chymotrypsin; Clostridium; DNA; DNA Primers; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Hot Temperature; Mass Spectrometry; Models, Chemical; Multigene Family; Protein Biosynthesis; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Protein Structure, Tertiary; RNA Splicing; Software; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Transcription, Genetic; Trypsin	Dassa	Bareket
15142599	10.1016/j.bios.2003.12.034	Orientated binding of photosynthetic reaction centers on gold using Ni-NTA self-assembled monolayers.	Coupling of photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) with inorganic surfaces is attractive for the identification of the mechanisms of interprotein electron transfer (ET) and for possible applications in construction of photo- and chemosensors. Here we show that RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides can be immobilized on gold surfaces with the RC primary donor looking towards the substrate by using a genetically engineered poly-histidine tag (His(7)) at the C-terminal end of the M-subunit and a Ni-NTA terminated self-assembled monolayer (SAM). In the presence of an electron acceptor, ubiquinone-10, illumination of this RC electrode generates a cathodic photocurrent. The action spectrum of the photocurrent coincides with the absorption spectrum of RC and the photocurrent decreases in response to the herbicide, atrazine, confirming that the RC is the primary source of the photoresponse. Disruption of the Ni-NTA-RC bond by imidazole leads to about 80% reduction of the photocurrent indicating that	2004	12	15	Biosens Bioelectron	Biosensors &amp; bioelectronics	Adsorption; Atrazine; Biosensing Techniques; Coated Materials, Biocompatible; Crystallization; Electrochemistry; Equipment Design; Equipment Failure Analysis; Gold; Herbicides; Light; Macromolecular Substances; Materials Testing; Nickel; Nitrilotriacetic Acid; Organometallic Compounds; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation	Trammell	Scott A
15137103	10.1002/bip.20052	Anomalous acceleration of the photocycle in photosynthetic reaction centers inhibited on the acceptor side.	The rate of the photocycle (quinone reduction cycle) was measured under continuous light excitation in an isolated reaction center protein of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The rate is determined by the slowest step of the photocycle, which could be the photochemistry (charge separation), the quinone/quinol and cytochrome c(2+)/c(3+) exchanges, or proton delivery to the secondary quinone. The photocycle was driven by high light intensity of a laser diode (5 W/cm(2) at 808 nm) to avoid light limitation of the observed rate. The fast turnover of the reaction center (up to 10(3) s(-1)) was slowed down by inhibition of the proton delivery to the secondary quinone by transition metal ions (Cd(2+) and Ni(2+)), by mutation of a key protonatable group (L213Asp --&gt; Asn), or by use of low-affinity ubiquinone (UQ(0)) to the secondary quinone binding site. Although in all of these cases the rate of turnover was 2-3 orders of magnitude less than that of the primary photoch	2004	7	20	Biopolymers	Biopolymers	Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Cytochromes; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Electrons; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ions; Kinetics; Light; Models, Chemical; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Gerencs..r	L
15137102	10.1002/bip.20051	Delayed fluorescence from the photosynthetic reaction center measured by electronic gating of the photomultiplier.	The decay of the delayed fluorescence (920 nm) of reaction centers from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 in the P(+)Q(A)(-) charge-separated state (P and Q(A) are the primary donor and quinone, respectively) has been monitored in a wide (100 ns to 100 ms) time range. The photomultiplier (Hamamatsu R3310-03) was protected from the intense prompt fluorescence by application of gating potential pulses (-280 V) to the first, third, and fifth dynodes during the laser pulse. The gain of the photomultiplier dropped transiently by a factor of 1 x 10(6). The delayed fluorescence showed a smooth but nonexponential decay from 100 ns to 1 ms that was explained by the relaxation of the average free energy between P* and P(+)Q(A)(-) changing from -580 to -910 meV. This relaxation is due to the slow protein response to charge separation and can be described by a Kohlrausch relaxation function with time constant of 65 micros and a stretching exponent of alpha = 0.45.	2004	7	20	Biopolymers	Biopolymers	Electrons; Kinetics; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Time Factors	Filus	Z
15135531	10.1016/j.femsle.2004.03.037	Characterization of Cu- and Zn-containing superoxide dismutase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a cuprozinc-containing superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) in its periplasm in addition to the cytoplasmic SOD that appears to contain iron (FeSOD). The FeSOD is constitutively expressed under the growth conditions examined, whereas the CuZnSOD is detected only when the light-harvesting complexes are found. The CuZnSOD expression is regulated post-transcriptionally, and the enzyme appears to protect the photoheterotrophic cells from periplasmic superoxide that may be generated by exposure of the cells to low O2 under the illuminated conditions at 10 W/m2.	2004	7	19	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Cytosol; Isoenzymes; Mutagenesis; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Superoxide Dismutase	Kho	Dhong Hyo
15134449	10.1021/bi036279o	Role of the conserved arginine pair in proton and electron transfer in cytochrome C oxidase.	A hydrogen-bonded network is observed above the hemes in all of the high-resolution crystal structures of cytochrome oxidases. It includes water and a pair of arginines, R481 and R482 (Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering), that interact directly with heme a and the heme a(3) propionates. The hydrogen-bonded network provides potential pathways for proton release. The arginines, and the backbone peptide bond between them, have also been proposed to form part of a facilitated electron transfer route between Cu(A) and heme a. Our studies show that mutations of R482 (K, Q, and A) and R481 (K) retain substantial activity and are able to pump protons, but at somewhat reduced rates and stoichiometries. A slowed rate of electron transfer from cytochrome c to Cu(A) suggests a change in the orientation of cytochrome c binding in all but the R to K mutants. The mutant R482P is more perturbed in its structure and is altered in the redox potential difference between heme a and Cu(A): +18 mV for R482P 	2004	9	16	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alanine; Arginine; Catalysis; Conserved Sequence; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Activation; Glutamine; Heme; Kinetics; Lysine; Magnesium; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Proline; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Qian	Jie
15130781	10.1016/j.abb.2004.03.027	The role of cysteine 160 in thiamine diphosphate binding of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle transketolase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The transketolase gene (cbbT) that encodes the Calvin-Benson-Bassham pathway transketolase (CbbT) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant protein purified to homogeneity. Like other transketolases, R. sphaeroides CbbT was found to be inactivated in the presence of oxygen. At its optimal pH of 7.8, CbbT displays a specific activity of 37 U/mg, a KR5P of 949 microM, a KXu5P of 11 microM, and a KThDP of 1.8 microM. Cysteine 160, equivalent to Cys159 of the yeast enzyme, is found within the active site and is loosely conserved amongst several sources of transketolase. To investigate the role of cysteine 160 found in the active site of R. sphaeroides CbbT, this residue was targeted for mutagenesis. Cys160 was changed to alanine, serine, aspartate, and glutamate. To compare the effect of these mutations on ThDP binding, spectral techniques were employed in addition to analysis by enzymatic activity. Fluorescence quenching was used to measure both 	2004	6	15	Arch Biochem Biophys	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	Air; Amino Acid Substitution; Ammonium Sulfate; Apoenzymes; Argon; Binding Sites; Cysteine; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Pentose Phosphate Pathway; Protein Binding; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Thiamine Pyrophosphate; Transketolase	Bobst	Cedric E
15130469	10.1016/j.str.2004.02.037	Protein regulation of carotenoid binding; gatekeeper and locking amino acid residues in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	X-ray diffraction was used to determine high-resolution structures of the reaction center (RC) complex from the carotenoidless mutant, Rb. sphaeroides R-26.1, without or reconstituted with carotenoids. The results are compared with the structure of the RC from a semiaerobically grown Rb. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1. The investigation reveals the structure of the carotenoid in the different protein preparations, the nature of its binding site, and a plausible mechanism by which the carotenoid is incorporated unidirectionally in its characteristic geometric configuration. The structural data suggest that the accessibility of the carotenoid to the binding site is controlled by a specific "gatekeeper" residue which allows the carotenoid to approach the binding site from only one direction. Carotenoid binding to the protein is secured by hydrogen bonding to a separate "locking" amino acid. The study reveals the specific molecular interactions that control how the carotenoid protects the photos	2005	2	10	Structure	Structure (London, England : 1993)	Amino Acids; Carotenoids; Crystallography, X-Ray; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Roszak	Aleksander W
15129622		[Mechanism of charge separation and their stabilization in bacterial reaction centers].	The nuclear wavepacket formed by 20-fs excitation on the P* potential energy surface in native and mutant (YM210W and YM210L) reaction centers of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides and Chloroflexus (C.) aurantiacus RCs was found to be reversibly transferred to the P+BA- surface at 120, 380, and 640-fs delays (monitored by measurements of BA- absorption at 1020-1028 nm). The reaction centers of YM210W(L) mutant show the most simple pattern of fs oscillations with a period of 230 fs in stimulated emission from P* and in the product P+BA-. The mechanisms of the electron transfer pathway between P* and BA and of the stabilization of the state P+BA- in bacterial reaction centers are discussed.	2004	9	7	Biofizika	Biofizika	Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Tyrosine	Iakovlev	A G
15122896	10.1021/bi049836v	Light-induced structural changes in a putative blue-light receptor with a novel FAD binding fold sensor of blue-light using FAD (BLUF); Slr1694 of synechocystis sp. PCC6803.	The sensor of blue-light using FAD (BLUF) domain is the flavin-binding fold categorized to a new class of blue-light sensing domain found in AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and PAC from Euglena gracilis, but little is known concerning the mechanism of blue-light perception. An open reading frame slr1694 in a cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 encodes a protein possessing the BLUF domain. Here, a full-length Slr1694 protein retaining FAD was expressed and purified and found to be present as an oligomeric form (trimer or tetramer). Using the purified Slr1694, spectroscopic properties of Slr1694 were characterized. Slr1694 was found to show the same red-shift of flavin absorption and quenching of flavin fluorescence by illumination as those of AppA. These changes reversed in the dark although the rate of dark state regeneration was much faster in Slr1694 than AppA, indicating that Slr1694 is a blue-light receptor based on BLUF with the similar photocycle to that of AppA. The dark 	2004	9	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Isotopes; Cryptochromes; Cyanobacteria; Deuterium Exchange Measurement; Drosophila Proteins; Eye Proteins; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Light; Nitrogen Isotopes; Photoreceptor Cells, Invertebrate; Protein Binding; Protein Folding; Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Masuda	Shinji
15116562	10.1023/b:dobi.0000017147.33235.b4	Substitution of isoleucine M206 residue by histidine in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers causes changes in the structure of the special bacteriochlorophyll pair molecule.	NA	2004	12	21	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Histidine; Isoleucine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthesis; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Structure-Activity Relationship	Bolgarina	T I
15110262	10.1016/j.bioelechem.2003.10.015	pH-sensitive fluorescent dye as probe for proton uptake in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Isolated and purified reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26.1 were solubilised in detergent with excess quinone and external electron donors and illuminated in the presence of pyranine. The pH change accompanying the reaction center photocycle was monitored by recording the variation of the pyranine fluorescence intensity. Using Q(B)-depleted reaction centers or blocking the photocycle with terbutryne strongly reduced the pH change. The usefulness and limits of this technique in monitoring the pH changes during the RC photocycle are also discussed.	2004	12	21	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Arylsulfonates; Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation; Fluorescent Dyes; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Radiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Agostiano	A
15110251	10.1016/j.bioelechem.2003.09.015	Electron transfer kinetics in photosynthetic reaction centers embedded in polyvinyl alcohol films.	The coupling between electron transfer and protein dynamics has been studied at room temperature in isolated reaction centers (RCs) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by incorporating the protein in polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) films of different water/RC ratios. The kinetic analysis of charge recombination shows that dehydration of RC-containing PVA films causes reversible, inhomogeneous inhibition of electron transfer from the reduced primary quinone acceptor (Q(A)(-)) to the secondary quinone Q(B). A more extensive dehydration of solid PVA matrices accelerates electron transfer from Q(A)(-) to the primary photooxidized electron donor P(+). These effects indicate that incorporation of RCs into dehydrated PVA films hinders the conformational dynamics gating Q(A)(-) to Q(B) electron transfer at room temperature and slows down protein relaxation which stabilizes the primary charge-separated state P(+)Q(A)(-). A comparison with analogous effects observed in trehalose-co	2004	12	21	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Absorption; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light; Membranes, Artificial; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polyvinyl Alcohol; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Francia	Francesco
15103107	10.1255/ejms.594	Mass spectrometric detection of protein, lipid and heme components of cytochrome c oxidase from R. sphaeroides and the stabilization of non-covalent complexes from the enzyme.	The cytochrome c oxidase enzyme from the Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteria exists as a complex of four peptide subunits, two hemes, and a variety of lipids and metal ions held together by non-covalent forces. While the native enzyme functions as an associated unit, this complex usually dissociates during MALDI- TOF analysis. Through the use of matrix additives such as sucrose, the complete complex and partial complexes can be stabilized in the MALDI-TOF experiment. The dissociation of the complex allows for the detection of the components of the enzyme. The direct detection of associated lipids from an aqueous solution of the intact enzyme may eliminate the need for enzyme disruption and lipid extraction. The partial dissociation of multisubunit enzymes in such experiments may allow for the determination of subunit-subunit and subunit-lipid interactions	2004	7	12	Eur J Mass Spectrom (Chichester)	European journal of mass spectrometry (Chichester, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Lipids; Molecular Sequence Data; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Distler	Anne M
15100021	10.1016/j.bbabio.2003.07.012	Modulation of the free energy of the primary quinone acceptor (QA) in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: contributions from the protein and protein-lipid(cardiolipin) interactions.	The redox midpoint potential (E(m)) of Q(A), the primary quinone of bacterial reaction centers, is substantially modulated by the protein environment. Quite subtle mutations in the Q(A) binding site, e.g., at residues M218, M252 and M265, cause significant increases in the equilibrium constant for electron transfer to Q(B), which indicate relative lowering of the E(m) of Q(A). However, reports of functional linkage between the Q(A) and Q(B) sites make it difficult to partition such effects between Q(A) and Q(B) from purely relative changes. We report here measurements on the yield of delayed fluorescence emission from the primary donor (P) accompanying the thermally activated charge recombination of P(+)Q(A)(-) to form the excited singlet state of the primary donor, P*. The results show that for mutations of the Q(A) site residues, Met(M218) and Ile(M265), essentially all the substantial thermodynamic effect is localized at Q(A), with no evidence for a significant effect of these resid	2004	6	17	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Binding Sites; Cardiolipins; Electron Transport; Energy Metabolism; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Thermodynamics	Rinyu	Laszlo
15100020	10.1016/j.bbabio.2003.10.012	Proton-coupled electron transfer at the Qo-site of the bc1 complex controls the rate of ubihydroquinone oxidation.	The rate-limiting reaction of the bc(1) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is transfer of the first electron from ubihydroquinone (quinol, QH(2)) to the [2Fe-2S] cluster of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) at the Q(o)-site. Formation of the ES-complex requires participation of two substrates (S), QH(2) and ISP(ox). From the variation of rate with [S], the binding constants for both substrates involved in formation of the complex can be estimated. The configuration of the ES-complex likely involves the dissociated form of the oxidized ISP (ISP(ox)) docked at the b-interface on cyt b, in a complex in which N(epsilon) of His-161 (bovine sequence) forms a H-bond with the quinol -OH. A coupled proton and electron transfer occurs along this H-bond. This brief review discusses the information available on the nature of this reaction from kinetic, structural and mutagenesis studies. The rate is much slower than expected from the distance involved, likely because it is controlled by the l	2004	6	17	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Energy Metabolism; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroquinones; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Crofts	Antony R
15096044	10.1021/bi035726x	Formation of a semiquinone at the QB site by A- or B-branch electron transfer in the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers containing the mutation Ala M260 to Trp (AM260W), transmembrane electron transfer along the A-branch of cofactors is prevented by the loss of the QA ubiquinone. Reaction centers that contain this AM260W mutation are proposed to photoaccumulate the P(+)QB- radical pair following transmembrane electron transfer along the B-branch of cofactors (Wakeham, M. C., Goodwin, M. G., McKibbin, C., and Jones, M. R. (2003) Photoaccumulation of the P(+)QB- radical pair state in purple bacterial reaction centers that lack the QA ubiquinone. FEBS Lett. 540, 234-240). The yield of the P(+)QB- state appears to depend upon which additional mutations are present. In the present paper, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy was used to demonstrate that photooxidation of the reaction center's primary donor in QA-deficient reaction centers results in formation of a semiquinone at the QB site by B-branch electron transfer. Reduction of QB by the B	2004	8	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alanine; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Freezing; Light; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polyenes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Tryptophan; Ubiquinone	Wakeham	Marion C
15073291	10.1099/mic.0.26795-0	Enzymes and genes of taurine and isethionate dissimilation in Paracoccus denitrificans.	Growth of the alpha-proteobacterium Paracoccus denitrificans NKNIS with taurine or isethionate as sole source of carbon involves sulfoacetaldehyde acetyltransferase (Xsc), which is presumably encoded by an xsc gene in subgroup 3, none of whose gene products has been characterized. The genome of the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 was interpreted to contain a nine-gene cluster encoding the inducible dissimilation of taurine, and this deduced pathway included a regulator, a tripartite ATP-independent transporter, taurine dehydrogenase (TDH; presumably TauXY) as well as Xsc (subgroup 3), a hypothetical protein and phosphate acetyltransferase (Pta). A similar cluster was found in P. denitrificans NKNIS, in contrast to an analogous cluster encoding an ATP-binding cassette transporter in Paracoccus pantotrophus. Inducible TDH, Xsc and Pta were found in extracts of taurine-grown cells of strain NKNIS. TDH oxidized taurine to sulfoacetaldehyde and ammonium ion with cytochro	2004	7	9	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Acetaldehyde; Acetyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Isethionic Acid; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Oxidoreductases; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Paracoccus denitrificans; Phosphate Acetyltransferase; Rhodobacteraceae; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Taurine	Br..ggemann	Chantal
15062092	10.1016/j.str.2004.03.001	X-Ray structure determination of three mutants of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers from Rb. sphaeroides; altered proton transfer pathways.	In the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the reduction of a bound quinone molecule Q(B) is coupled with proton uptake. When Asp-L213 is replaced by Asn, proton transfer is inhibited. Proton transfer was restored by two second-site revertant mutations, Arg-M233--&gt;Cys and Arg-H177--&gt;His. Kinetic effects of Cd(2+) on proton transfer showed that the entry point in revertant RCs to be the same as in the native RC. The structures of the parental and two revertant RCs were determined at resolutions of 2.10, 1.80, and 2.75 A. From the structures, we were able to delineate alternate proton transfer pathways in the revertants. The main changes occur near Glu-H173, which allow it to substitute for the missing Asp-L213. The electrostatic changes near Glu-H173 cause it to be a good proton donor and acceptor, and the structural changes create a cavity which accommodates water molecules that connect Glu-H173 to other proton transfer components.	2004	11	24	Structure	Structure (London, England : 1993)	Binding Sites; Cadmium; Crystallography, X-Ray; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Xu	Qiang
15061694	10.1023/b:biry.0000022058.30330.1c	Effect of oxygen on temporary stabilization of photoreduced quinone acceptors in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	The effect of molecular oxygen on the photochemical activity of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers frozen to 160 K under actinic illumination was investigated by the ESR method. About 90% of initially photochemically active bacteriochlorophyll (P) were fixed at 160 K for a long time in aerobic samples in an inactive form. In anaerobic samples, not more than 65% were fixed in an inactive form under the same conditions. In aerobic preparations, a small portion of photochemically active bacteriochlorophyll (about 10%) that retains its photochemical activity at 160 K after freezing under illumination has dark reduction kinetics similar to that of samples at room temperature after several seconds of actinic illumination. In anaerobic samples frozen under illumination, the remaining photochemically active reaction centers (35%) have the same dark reduction kinetics as samples illuminated at 295 K for 1-2 min. The conclusion is that the irreversible stabilization of bacteriochloroph	2005	6	3	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacteriochlorophylls; Cell Division; Freezing; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photochemistry; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Knox	P P
15053603	10.1021/ja036883m	A unified description of the electrochemical, charge distribution, and spectroscopic properties of the special-pair radical cation in bacterial photosynthesis.	We apply our four-state 70-vibration vibronic-coupling model for the properties of the photosynthetic special-pair radical cation to: (1) interpret the observed correlations between the midpoint potential and the distribution of spin density between the two bacteriochlorophylls for 30 mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, (2) interpret the observed average intervalence hole-transfer absorption energies as a function of spin density for six mutants, and (3) simulate the recently obtained intervalence electroabsorption Stark spectrum of the wild-type reaction center. While three new parameters describing the location of the sites of mutation with respect to the special pair are required to describe the midpoint-potential data, a priori predictions are made for the transition energies and the Stark spectrum. In general, excellent predictions are made of the observed quantities, with deviations being typically of the order of twice the experimental uncertainties. A unified description of man	2004	8	2	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	NA	Reimers	Jeffrey R
15051543	10.1016/j.ab.2004.01.023	Estimation of binding constants for the substrate and activator of Rhodobacter sphaeroides adenosine 5'-diphosphate-glucose pyrophosphorylase using affinity capillary electrophoresis.	Binding constants were determined for the activator fructose-6-phosphate (F6P) and substrate adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) (in the presence and absence of F6P) to the recombinant wild-type (WT) Rhodobacter sphaeroides adenosine 5'-diphosphate-(ADP)-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPGlc PPase) using affinity capillary electrophoresis (ACE). In these binding studies, the capillary is initially injected with a plug of sample containing ADPGlc PPase and noninteracting standards. The sample is then subjected to increasing concentrations of F6P or ATP in the running buffer and electrophoresed. Analysis of the change in the migration times of ADPGlc PPase, relative to those of the noninteracting standards, as a function of the varying concentration of F6P or ATP yields a binding constant. The values obtained were in good agreement with kinetic parameters obtained from steady state activity assays. The method was extended to examine the F6P binding constants for the R33A and R22A enzymes and the	2004	11	29	Anal Biochem	Analytical biochemistry	Adenosine Triphosphate; Allosteric Regulation; Electrophoresis, Capillary; Enzyme Activation; Fructosephosphates; Glucose-1-Phosphate Adenylyltransferase; Kinetics; Nucleotidyltransferases; Protein Binding; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Kaddis	John
15038289	10.1002/cphc.200300961	Potential energy landscape for conformationally gated secondary ubiquinone binding in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2005	2	4	Chemphyschem	Chemphyschem : a European journal of chemical physics and physical chemistry	NA	Rahaman	Asif
15029701		[Features of transformation of phosphates in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores].	We have found the ATP production in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores illuminated by single short light flash, that is under conditions when the proton gradient formed as a result of electron transport after the second flash, is absent. The ATP synthesis was accompanied by the H2O2 formation. Simultaneous formation of H2O2 is indicative of the oxidative activation of phosphate during the ATP synthesis, as in the model systems with isolated chlorophyll. These data provide a theoretical background to the fitting of illumination parameters in both laboratory and industrial photobioreactors with photosynthetic bacteria used in biotechnological processes.	2004	6	4	Prikl Biokhim Mikrobiol	Prikladnaia biokhimiia i mikrobiologiia	Adenosine Triphosphate; Bioreactors; Hydrogen Peroxide; Phosphates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Goncharova	N V
15028685	10.1128/JB.186.7.2019-2027.2004	DNA sequence duplication in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: evidence of an ancient partnership between chromosomes I and II.	The complex genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, composed of chromosomes I (CI) and II (CII), has been sequenced and assembled. We present data demonstrating that the R. sphaeroides genome possesses an extensive amount of exact DNA sequence duplication, 111 kb or approximately 2.7% of the total chromosomal DNA. The chromosomal DNA sequence duplications were aligned to each other by using MUMmer. Frequency and size distribution analyses of the exact DNA duplications revealed that the interchromosomal duplications occurred prior to the intrachromosomal duplications. Most of the DNA sequence duplications in the R. sphaeroides genome occurred early in species history, whereas more recent sequence duplications are rarely found. To uncover the history of gene duplications in the R. sphaeroides genome, 44 gene duplications were sampled and then analyzed for DNA sequence similarity against orthologous DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that approximately 80% of the total gene du	2004	4	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Duplication; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Choudhary	Madhusudan
14999403	10.1007/s00018-003-3242-1	Oxygen intervention in the regulation of gene expression: the photosynthetic bacterial paradigm.	The means by which oxygen intervenes in gene expression has been examined in considerable detail in the metabolically versatile bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Three regulatory systems are now known in this organism, which are used singly and in combination to modulate genes in response to changing oxygen availability. The outcome of these regulatory events is that the molecular machinery is present for the cell to obtain energy by means that are best suited to prevailing conditions, while at the same time maintaining cellular redox balance. Here, we explore the dangers associated with molecular oxygen relative to the various metabolisms used by R. sphaeroides, and then present the most recent findings regarding the features and operation of each of the three regulatory systems which collectively mediate oxygen control in this organism.	2004	3	30	Cell Mol Life Sci	Cellular and molecular life sciences : CMLS	Cell Membrane; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zeilstra-Ryalls	J H
14993319	10.1099/mic.0.26777-0	Redox property and regulation of PpsR, a transcriptional repressor of photosystem gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	PpsR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is involved in the repression of photosystem gene expression. The PpsR protein was heterologously overexpressed and purified to homogeneity. Gel mobility shift assay showed that the purified PpsR has DNA-binding activity. SDS-PAGE analysis showed that some portions of PpsR were oxidized, indicating that intramolecular or intermolecular disulphide bonds were formed between the two cysteines in each subunit. When the disulphide bond of PpsR was reduced by DTT, the binding activity of PpsR to the puc promoter region distinctly increased. The changes in protein level and DNA-binding activity of PpsR were observed in a conjugant with an extra copy of the ppsR gene and in a PpsR-null mutant (PPS1), respectively. Both cysteines in PpsR existed in their reduced form under aerobic, anaerobic-dark and anaerobic-light growth conditions, as determined using thiol-specific chemical modification. In an AppA-null mutant (APP11), the binding activity and the amount of	2004	5	10	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Cysteine; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cho	Seung-Hyun
14988026	10.1016/S0014-5793(04)00117-6	The effect of internal voids in membrane proteins: high-pressure study of two photochemical reaction centres from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The effect of application of high pressure on the carotenoid-containing bacterial reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 was studied, and compared to recent experiments performed on its carotenoid-less counterpart, isolated from strain R26.1. Our results indicate that the cavity created by the absence of carotenoid contributes to localised differences in protein compressibility when using the intrinsic chromophores as molecular probes. Differential stability of the electronic transitions of the primary electron donor under high hydrostatic pressure is observed, dependent on the presence of the carotenoid cofactor. This suggests that the transition intensity loss is induced by a slight change of the primary electron donor structure, allowed by the void created by the absence of the carotenoid molecule.	2004	4	1	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Bacteriochlorophylls; Elasticity; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Probes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pressure; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Gall	Andrew
14974718		Multichannel flash spectroscopy of the reaction centers of wild-type and mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides: bacteriochlorophyllB-mediated interaction between the carotenoid triplet and the special pair.	Multichannel flash spectroscopy (with microsecond time resolution) has been applied to carotenoid (Car)-containing and Car-less reaction centers (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with a view to investigate the interaction between the Car and its neighboring pigments at room temperature. Under neutral redox potential conditions, where the primary quinone acceptor (QA) is oxidized, the light-induced spectral changes in the 350-1000 nm region are attributed to the photochemical oxidation of the special pair (denoted here as P870), the generation of P870(+)QA(-), and the attendant electrochromism of adjacent chromophores. A bathochromic shift of &lt;1 nm in the visible absorption region of Car reveals the sensitivity of Car to the P870 photooxidation. Under low redox potential conditions, where QA is reduced, P870 triplets (P870(+)) are formed. The time-resolved triplet-minus-singlet (TmS) spectrum of Car-less RC shows a deep bleaching at 870 nm, which belongs to P870(+), and additional (but	2004	3	29	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Arellano	Juan B
14967022	10.1021/bi035789f	Rhodobacter capsulatus photoactive yellow protein: genetic context, spectral and kinetics characterization, and mutagenesis.	A gene for photoactive yellow protein (PYP) was previously cloned from Rhodobacter capsulatus (Rc), and we have now found it to be associated with genes for gas vesicle formation in the recently completed genome sequence. However, the PYP had not been characterized as a protein. We have now produced the recombinant RcPYP in Escherichia coli as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein, along with the biosynthetic enzymes, resulting in the formation of holo-RcPYP following cleavage of the GST tag. The absorption spectrum (with characteristic peaks at 435 and 375 nm) and the photocycle kinetics, initiated by a laser flash at 445 nm, are generally similar to those of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsPYP) but are significantly different from those of the prototypic PYP from Halorhodospira halophila (HhPYP), which has a single peak at 446 nm and has slower recovery. RcPYP also is photoactive when excited with near-ultraviolet laser light, but the end point is then above the preflash baseli	2004	6	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Glutamine; Glycine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Lysine; Methionine; Multigene Family; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Temperature	Kyndt	J A
14769025	10.1021/bi035378z	The extra fragment of the iron-sulfur protein (residues 96-107) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc1 complex is required for protein stability.	Sequence alignment of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) of cytochrome bc(1) complex from various sources reveals that bacterial ISPs contain an extra fragment. To study the role of this fragment in bacterial cytochrome bc(1) complex, Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants expressing His-tagged cytochrome bc(1) complexes with deletion or single- or multiple-alanine substitution at various positions of this fragment (residues 96-107) were generated and characterized. The ISPDelta(96-107), ISP(96-107)A, and ISP(104-107)A mutant cells, in which residues 96-107 of ISP are deleted, and residues 96-107 and 104-107 are substituted with alanine, respectively, do not grow photosynthetically and show no bc(1) complex activity in intracytoplasmic membranes prepared from these mutant cells. The ISP(96-99)A, in which residues 96-99 are substituted with alanine, grows photosynthetically at a rate comparable to that of the complement cells, whereas ISP(100-103)A, in which residues 100-103 are substituted 	2004	6	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Electron Transport Complex III; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Peptide Fragments; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Thermodynamics	Xiao	Kunhong
14766369	10.2741/1236	Proton and electron transfer in the acceptor quinone complex of photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	For twenty years the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) has been the premier testing ground for theoretical understanding of electron transfer in aperiodic systems, with special, but not unique, reference to long distance biological electron transport. In addition to the known structure, many of the attributes that make RCs so well suited to studying electron transfer function equally well for any charge movement, including protons. These include the presence of intrinsic reporter groups (electrochromically active pigments), high time resolution through light activation, and a large number and variety of distinct reactions, ranging from loosely coupled responses of the protein dielectric to specific, long distance proton transfers in and out of active sites, and bond making in terminal chemical transformations. A wide variety of biophysical methods have been coupled with site directed mutagenesis to reveal mechanisms of proton uptake, transfer and chemistry in the RC. This review summ	2004	6	7	Front Biosci	Frontiers in bioscience : a journal and virtual library	Biological Transport; Electron Transport; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wraight	Colin A
14765115	10.1038/sj.emboj.7600092	Molecular architecture of photosynthetic membranes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: the role of PufX.	The effects of the PufX polypeptide on membrane architecture were investigated by comparing the composition and structures of photosynthetic membranes from PufX+ and PufX- strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We show that this single polypeptide profoundly affects membrane morphology, leading to highly elongated cells containing extended tubular membranes. Purified tubular membranes contain helical arrays composed solely of dimeric RC-LH1-PufX (RC, reaction centre; LH, light harvesting) complexes with apparently open LH1 rings. PufX- cells contain crystalline membranes with a pseudo-hexagonal packing of monomeric core complexes. Analysis of purified complexes by electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy shows that LH1 and PufX form a continuous ring of protein around each RC. A model of the tubular membrane is presented with PufX located adjacent to the stained region created by a vacant LH1beta. This arrangement, coupled with a flexible ring, would give the RC QB site transient a	2005	7	19	EMBO J	The EMBO journal	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Centrifugation, Density Gradient; Crystallography; Dimerization; Electron Transport Complex III; Fourier Analysis; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Electron; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Siebert	C Alistair
14763990	10.1046/j.1365-2958.2003.03904.x	Differences in two Pseudomonas aeruginosa cbb3 cytochrome oxidases.	Bacterial cytochrome cbb3 oxidases are members of the haeme-copper oxidase superfamily that are important for energy conservation by a variety of proteobacteria under oxygen-limiting conditions. The opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa is unusual in possessing two operons that each potentially encode a cbb3 oxidase (cbb3-1 or cbb3-2). Our results demonstrate that, unlike typical enzymes of this class, the cbb3-1 oxidase has an important metabolic function at high oxygen tensions. In highly aerated cultures, cbb3-1 abundance and expression were greater than that of cbb3-2, and only loss of cbb3-1 influenced growth. Also, the activity of cbb3-1, not cbb3-2, inhibited expression of the alternative oxidase CioAB and thus influenced a signal transduction pathway much like that found in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Cbb3-2 appeared to play a more significant role under oxygen limitation by nature of its increased abundance and expression compared to highly aerat	2004	4	22	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Cytochromes; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Order; Genes, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Operon; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Signal Transduction; Trans-Activators; beta-Galactosidase	Comolli	James C
14759176	10.1021/ja0384072	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides respiratory nitrate reductase, the kinetics of substrate binding favors intramolecular electron transfer.	The respiratory nitrate reductase (NapAB) from Rb. sphaeroides is a periplasmic molybdenum-containing enzyme which belongs to the DMSO reductase family. We report a study of NapAB by protein film voltammetry (PFV), and we present the first quantitative interpretation of the complex redox-state dependence of activity that has also been observed with other related enzymes. The model we use to fit the data assumes that binding of substrate partly limits turnover and is faster and weaker when the Mo ion is in the V oxidation state than when it is fully reduced. We explain how the presence in the catalytic cycle of such slow chemical steps coupled to electron transfer to the active site decreases the driving force required to reduce the MoV ion and makes exergonic the last intramolecular electron-transfer step (between the proximal cubane and the Mo cofactor). Importantly, comparison is made with all Mo enzymes for which PFV data are available, and we emphasize general features of the energ	2004	5	19	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Electrochemistry; Electrons; Kinetics; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrate Reductases; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Frangioni	Bettina
14736869	10.1074/jbc.M313417200	Hydrogen bonds involved in binding the Qi-site semiquinone in the bc1 complex, identified through deuterium exchange using pulsed EPR.	Exchangeable protons in the immediate neighborhood of the semiquinone (SQ) at the Qi-site of the bc1 complex (ubihydroquinone:cytochrome c oxidoreductase (EC 1.10.2.2)) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been characterized using electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) and hyperfine sublevel correlation spectroscopy (HYSCORE) and visualized by substitution of H2O by 2H2O. Three exchangeable protons interact with the electron spin of the SQ. They possess different isotropic and anisotropic hyperfine couplings that allow a clear distinction between them. The strength of interactions indicates that the protons are involved in hydrogen bonds with SQ. The hyperfine couplings differ from values typical for in-plane hydrogen bonds previously observed in model experiments. It is suggested that the two stronger couplings involve formation of hydrogen bonds with carbonyl oxygens, which have a significant out-of-plane character due to the combined influence of bulky substituents and the prot	2004	7	22	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Benzoquinones; Deuterium; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen Bonding; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dikanov	Sergei A
14688095	10.1128/IAI.72.1.176-186.2004	Role of Toll-like receptor 4 in induction of cell-mediated immunity and resistance to Brucella abortus infection in mice.	Initial host defense to bacterial infection is executed by innate immunity, and therefore the main goal of this study was to examine the contribution of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) during Brucella abortus infection. CHO reporter cell lines transfected with CD14 and TLRs showed that B. abortus triggers both TLR2 and TLR4. In contrast, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and lipid A derived from Brucella rough (R) and smooth (S) strains activate CHO cells only through TLR4. Consistently, macrophages from C3H/HePas mice exposed to R and S strains and their LPS produced higher levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-12 compared to C3H/HeJ, a TLR4 mutant mouse. The essential role of TLR4 for induction of proinflammatory cytokines was confirmed with diphosphoryl lipid A from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Furthermore, to determine the contribution of TLR2 and TLR4 in bacterial clearance, numbers of Brucella were monitored in the spleen of C3H/HeJ, C3H/HePas, TLR2 knockout, and wild-t	2004	2	2	Infect Immun	Infection and immunity	Animals; Brucella abortus; Brucellosis; CHO Cells; Cricetinae; Dendritic Cells; Flow Cytometry; Immunity, Cellular; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Membrane Glycoproteins; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Mice, Inbred C3H; Receptors, Cell Surface; Signal Transduction; Spleen; Toll-Like Receptor 2; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Toll-Like Receptors	Campos	Marco A
18969839	10.1016/j.talanta.2004.07.026	Mathematical model for the analytical signal of an herbicide sensor based on the reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	This paper introduces a mathematical model which makes it possible both to determine the concentration of photosynthetic herbicides and to obtain a quantitative parameter in order to compare their activity using a previously described sensing system. The working principle involves the changes in absorption properties at 860nm of the reaction centre (RC) isolated from the bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides when photosynthetic herbicides are present. The method has been used for the determination and activity comparison of five photosynthetic herbicides: diuron, atrazine, terbutryn, terbuthylazine and simazine. Detection limits obtained were 2.2, 0.75, 0.046, 0.25, and 1.4muM, respectively. The resulting order for the different herbicides according to their action on RC was: terbutryn &gt; terbuthylazine &gt; atrazine &gt; simazine &gt; diuron.	2012	10	2	Talanta	Talanta	NA	Andreu	Yolanda
18697729		Production of lipases by four anoxygenic purple non-sulphur phototrophic bacteria.	Production of lipases by Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodocyclus gelatinosus and Rhodocyclus tenuis in different synthetic media was investigated. Rc. gelatinosus followed by Rb. sphaeroides were good producers of lipases, while Rps. palustris and Rc. tenuis were poor in lipase secretion. Lipase secretion by Rc. gelatinosus was adaptive in nature, while other three bacterial behavior was inconsistent. No positive correlation could be observed between growth and lipase production.	2009	1	22	Hindustan Antibiot Bull	Hindustan antibiotics bulletin	Anaerobiosis; Lipase; Rhodopseudomonas	Munjam	Srinivas
16866471	10.1021/jp046929d	Local electrostatic field induced by the carotenoid bound to the reaction center of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Electroabsorption (EA) spectra were recorded in the region of the reaction center (RC) Qy absorption bands of bacteriochlorophyll (Bchl) and bacteriopheophytin, to investigate the effect of carotenoid (Car) on the electrostatic environment of the RCs of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. Two different RCs were prepared from Rb. sphaeroides strain R26.1 (R26.1-RC); R26.1 RC lacking Car and a reconstituted RC (R26.1-RC+ Car) prepared by incorporating a synthetic Car (3,4-dihydrospheroidene). Although there were no detectable differences between these two RCs in their near infrared (NIR) absorption spectra at 79 and 293 K, or in their EA spectra at 79 K, significant differences were detected in their EA spectra at 293 K. Three nonlinear optical parameters of each RC were determined in order to evaluate quantitatively these differences; transition dipole-moment polarizability and hyperpolarizability (D factor), the change in polarizability upon photoexcitation (Deltaalpha)	2007	7	30	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carotenoids; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Static Electricity; Temperature	Yanagi	Kazuhiro
16853745	10.1021/jp054104d	Influence of cardiolipin on the functionality of the Q(a) site of the photosynthetic bacterial reaction center.	The effect of cardiolipin on the functionality of the Q(A) site of a photosynthetic reaction center (RC) was studied in RCs from the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by means of time-resolved absorbance measurements. The binding of the ubiquinone-10 to the Q(A) site of the RC embedded in cardiolipin or lecithin liposomes has been followed at different temperatures and phospholipid loading. A global fit of the experimental data allowed us to get quite reliable values of the thermodynamic parameters joined to the binding process. The presence of cardiolipin does not affect the affinity of the Q(A) site for ubiquinone but has a marked influence on the rate of P+QA(-) --&gt; PQA electron transfer. The P+QA(-) charge recombination kinetics has been examined in liposomes made of cardiolipin/lecithin mixtures and in detergent (DDAO) micelles doped with cardiolipin. The electron-transfer rate constant increases upon cardiolipin loading. It appears that the main effect of car	2007	6	28	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Binding Sites; Cardiolipins; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Liposomes; Micelles; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Giustini	Mauro
16853576	10.1021/jp052007e	Environmental control of primary photochemistry in a mutant bacterial reaction center.	The core structure of the photosynthetic reaction center is quasisymmetric with two potential pathways (called A and B) for transmembrane electron transfer. Both the pathway and products of light-induced charge separation depend on local electrostatic interactions and the nature of the excited states generated at early times in reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Here transient absorbance measurements were recorded following specific excitation of the Q(y)() transitions of P (the special pair of bacteriochlorophylls), the monomer bacteriochlorophylls (B(A) and B(B)), or the bacteriopheophytins (H(A) and H(B)) as a function of both buffer pH and detergent in a reaction center mutant with the mutations L168 His to Glu and L170 Asn to Asp in the vicinity of P and B(B). At a low pH in any detergent, or at any pH in a nonionic detergent (Triton X-100), the photochemistry of this mutant is faster than, but similar to, wild type (i.e. electron transfer occurs along the A-s	2007	7	25	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Buffers; Detergents; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Environment; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Mutation; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Haffa	Arlene L M
16852980	10.1021/jp051606i	Interference, fluctuation, and alternation of electron tunneling in protein media. 2. Non-condon theory for the energy gap dependence of electron transfer rate.	Developing the quantum transition rate theory of Prezhdo and Rossky (J. Chem. Phys. 1997, 107, 5863), we produced a new non-Condon theory of the rate of electron transfer (ET) which happens through a protein medium with conformational fluctuation. The new theory is expressed by a convolution form of the power spectrum for the autocorrelation function of the electronic tunneling matrix element T(DA)(t) with quantum correction and the ordinary Franck-Condon factor. The new theory satisfies the detailed balance condition for the forward and backward ET rates. The ET rate formula is divided into two terms of elastic and inelastic tunneling mechanisms on the mathematical basis. The present theory is applied to the ET from Bph(-) to Q(A) in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Numerical calculations of T(DA)(t) were made by a combined method of molecular dynamics simulations and quantum chemistry calculations. We showed that the normalized autocorrelation function of T(DA)(t) is a	2007	8	30	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Electrons; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nishioka	Hirotaka
16852561	10.1021/jp0522664	Light-induced structural changes in the active site of the BLUF domain in AppA by Raman spectroscopy.	The flavin-adenine-dinucleotide-binding BLUF domain constitutes a new class of blue-light receptors, and the N-terminal domain of AppA is a representative of this family. AppA functions as a transcriptional antirepressor, controlling the photosynthesis gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Upon light absorption, AppA undergoes a photocycle with a signaling state, which exhibits an approximately 10 nm red shift in the UV-vis absorption spectrum. We have characterized light-dependent changes in the active site of an AppA BLUF domain by Raman spectroscopy. The present study has found that altered chromophore-protein interactions, including a hydrogen bond at the C4=O position and structural changes around the N10-ribityl side chain, are key events in this activation process. These structural alterations are proposed to be responsible for the transmission of the light signal in the BLUF domain. This is the first report on a signaling-state Raman spectrum of a blu	2007	6	21	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Amino Acid Motifs; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Vibration	Unno	Masashi
16851865	10.1021/jp0451750	"Glass transition" near 200 K in the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center protein detected by studying the distances in the transient P+Q(A)- radical pair.	The transient radical pair P(+)Q(A)(-) in the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 was studied over a wide temperature range using out-of-phase electron spin-echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) spectroscopy. This method is sensitive to the magnetic dipole-dipole interaction between the two electron spins of the pair and allows precise determination of the distance in the pair P(+)Q(A)(-). The out-of-phase data were complemented by normal in-phase ESEEM spectra from the two stable radicals of P(+) and Q(A)(-). The results seem to indicate that the radical pair undergoes a noticeable molecular motion around 200 K that may be characterized by a change in the distance in the pair by approximately 0.3 nm. As the two cofactors, P(+) and Q(A)(-), are held in a well-defined relative position by the reaction center protein, this means that the protein becomes flexible at 200 K. This effect may be ascribed to a dynamic glass transition around 200 K. The relation with the 	2007	7	6	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Biochemistry; Chemistry, Physical; Computer Simulation; Electrons; Fourier Analysis; Free Radicals; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Borovykh	Igor V
16851864	10.1021/jp045417w	Simulation of electron transfer between cytochrome C2 and the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center: Brownian dynamics analysis of the native proteins and double mutants.	Electron transfer is essential for bacterial photosynthesis which converts light energy into chemical energy. This paper theoretically studies the interprotein electron transfer from cytochrome c(2) of Rhodobacter capsulatus to the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in native and mutated systems. Brownian dynamics is used with an exponential distance-dependent electron-transfer rate model to compute bimolecular rate constants, which are consistent with experimental data when reasonable prefactors and decay constants are used. Interestingly, switching of the reaction mechanism from the diffusion-controlled limit in the native proteins to the activation-controlled limit in one of the mutants (DK(L261)/KE(C99)) was found. We also predict that the second-order rate for the native reaction center/cytochrome c(2) system will decrease with increasing ionic strength, a characteristic of electrostatically controlled docking.	2007	7	6	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Algorithms; Chemistry, Physical; Cytochromes; Diffusion; Electrons; Ions; Light; Models, Chemical; Mutation; Normal Distribution; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Lin	Jianping
16511142	10.1107/S1744309105019640	New tetragonal form of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the involvement of a manganese ion at a crystal contact point.	Crystals have been obtained of wild-type reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides using manganese chloride as a precipitating agent. The crystals belong to the tetragonal space group P4(2)22, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 207.8, c = 107.5 A. The crystal structure has been determined to a resolution limit of 4.6 A using a previously determined structure of the reaction center as a molecular-replacement model. The calculated electron-density maps show the presence of a manganese ion at one of the crystal contact points bridging two symmetry-related histidine residues, suggesting that the metal plays a key role in facilitating the crystallization of the protein in this form.	2006	8	18	Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun	Acta crystallographica. Section F, Structural biology and crystallization communications	Crystallization; Diffusion; Manganese; Models, Molecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Uyeda	G
16386703	10.1016/j.bbabio.2005.11.006	Spectral analysis of the bc(1) complex components in situ: beyond the traditional difference approach.	The cytochrome (cyt) bc(1) complex (ubiquinol: cytochrome c oxidoreductase) is the central enzyme of mitochondrial and bacterial electron-transport chains. It is rich in prosthetic groups, many of which have significant but overlapping absorption bands in the visible spectrum. The kinetics of the cytochrome components of the bc(1) complex are traditionally followed by using the difference of absorbance changes at two or more different wavelengths. This difference-wavelength (DW) approach has been used extensively in the development and testing of the Q-cycle mechanism of the bc(1) complex in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores. However, the DW approach does not fully compensate for spectral interference from other components, which can significantly distort both amplitudes and kinetics. Mechanistic elaboration of cyt bc(1) turnover requires an approach that overcomes this limitation. Here, we compare the traditional DW approach to a least squares (LS) analysis of electron transport,	2006	3	15	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Chromatophores; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Heme; Kinetics; Least-Squares Analysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Shinkarev	Vladimir P
16380087	10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.12.034	Effect of the in situ electrochemical oxidation on the pigment-protein arrangement and energy transfer in light-harvesting complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601.	The oxidation of bacteriochlorophylls (BChls) in peripheral light-harvesting complexes (LH2) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated by spectroelectrochemistry of absorption, fluorescence emission, and femtosecond (fs) pump-probe, with the aim obtaining information about the effect of in situ electrochemical oxidation on the pigment-protein arrangement and energy transfer within LH2. The experimental results revealed that: (a) the generation of the BChl radical cation in both B800 and B850 rings dramatically induced bleaching of the characteristic absorption in the NIR region and quenching of the fluorescence emission from the B850 ring for the electrochemical oxidized LH2; (b) the BChl-B850 radical cation might act as an additional channel to compete with the unoxidized BChl-B850 molecules for rapidly releasing the excitation energy, however the B800-B850 energy transfer rate remained almost unchanged during the oxidation process.	2006	3	17	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Bacterial Proteins; Electrochemistry; Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer; Infrared Rays; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Liu	Weimin
16358778		[A study of protein structure changes during hydration by diffuse X-ray scattering. I. The intensity and the shape of "10-angstrom" maximum].	The angle dependencies of diffuse x-ray scattering intensities were studied in a wide range of angles from 3 to 80 degrees for water-soluble and membrane proteins with a different structural organization: alpha-helical protein myoglobin, alpha-helical protein serum albumen, alpha + beta protein lysozyme, and transmembrane proteins of photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) from purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Blastochlorii (Rhodopseudomonas) viridis containing cytocrome c, situated out side the membrane, and for H and L+M subunits of membrane protein of reaction center from Rb. sphaeroides for various hydration degrees. The hydration/dehydration process was studied for water-soluble proteins (within hydration range from h = 0.05 to h = 1). The hydration/dehydration process appears to be reversible. All water-soluble proteins show a 10 angstroms peak, and proteins of reaction center do not show this peak. A quantitative comparable study of the behaviour for of the 10 angstroms	2006	1	20	Biofizika	Biofizika	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Scattering, Radiation; X-Rays	Krupianski..	Iu F
16354664	10.1074/jbc.M511359200	Small weak acids reactivate proton transfer in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutated at AspL210 and AspM17.	In reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, site-directed mutagenesis has implicated several acidic residues in the delivery of protons to the secondary quinone (Q(B)) during reduction to quinol. In a double mutant (Asp(L210) --&gt; Asn + Asp(M17) --&gt; Asn) that is severely impaired in proton transfer capability over a wide pH range, proton transfer was "rescued" by added weak acids. For low pK(a) acids the total concentration of salt required near neutral pH was high. The ionic strength effect of added salts stimulated the rate of proton-coupled electron transfer at pH &lt; 7, but decreased it at pH &gt; 7.5, indicating an effective isoelectric point between these limits. In this region, a substantial rate enhancement by weak acids was clearly evident. A Br..nsted plot of activity versus pK(a) of the rescuing acids was linear, with a slope of -1, and extrapolated to a diffusion-limited rate at pK(a)(app) approximately 1. However, the maximum rate at saturating concentrations of 	2006	3	28	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cadmium; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Chloride	Takahashi	Eiji
16341897	10.1007/s00775-005-0065-6	Structural evidence for a proton transfer pathway coupled with haem reduction of cytochrome c" from Methylophilus methylotrophus.	The crystal structures of the oxidized and reduced forms of cytochrome c" from Methylophilus methylotrophus were solved from X-ray synchrotron data to atomic resolution. The overall fold of the molecule in the two redox states is very similar and is comparable to that of the oxygen-binding protein from the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. However, significant modifications occur near the haem group, in particular the detachment from axial binding of His95 observed upon reduction as well as the adoption of different conformations of some protonatable residues that form a possible proton path from the haem pocket to the protein surface. These changes are associated with the previously well characterized redox-Bohr behaviour of this protein. Furthermore they provide a model for one of the presently proposed mechanisms of proton translocation in the much more complex protein cytochrome c oxidase.	2006	5	4	J Biol Inorg Chem	Journal of biological inorganic chemistry : JBIC : a publication of the Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome c Group; Heme; Methylophilus methylotrophus; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Protons; Sequence Alignment	Enguita	Francisco J
16339955	10.1099/mic.0.28300-0	Mutational analysis of the C-terminal domain of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides response regulator PrrA.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides response regulator PrrA directly activates transcription of genes necessary for energy conservation at low O2 tensions and under anaerobic conditions. It is proposed that PrrA homologues contain a C-terminal DNA-binding domain (PrrA-CTD) that lacks significant amino acid sequence similarity to those found in other response regulators. To test this hypothesis, single amino acid substitutions were created at 12 residues in the PrrA-CTD. These mutant PrrA proteins were purified and tested for the ability to be phosphorylated by the low-molecular-mass phosphate donor acetyl phosphate, to activate transcription and to bind promoter DNA. Each mutant PrrA protein accepted phosphate from 32P-labelled acetyl phosphate. At micromolar concentrations of acetyl phosphate-treated wild-type PrrA, a single 20 bp region in the PrrA-dependent cycA P2 promoter was protected from DNase I digestion. Of the mutant PrrA proteins tested, only acetyl phosphate-treated PrrA-N168A and	2006	2	28	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	DNA, Bacterial; Gene Deletion; Genes, Regulator; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators	Jones	Denise F
16336188	10.1007/s10541-005-0258-1	Effects of oxygen, heavy water, and glycerol on electron transfer in the acceptor part of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	The kinetics of electron transfer between primary and secondary quinone acceptors of the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type was studied at the wavelengths 400 and 450 nm. It was shown that removing of molecular oxygen from RC preparations slowed down the fast phase of the process from 4-4.5 microsec to tens of microseconds. Similar effects were observed after the incubation of RC in heavy water for 72 h or glycerol addition (90% v/v) to RC preparations. The observed effects are interpreted in terms of the influence of these agents on the hydrogen bond system of the RC. The state of this system can determine the formation of different RC conformations that are characterized by different rates of electron transfer between quinone acceptors.	2006	6	9	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Deuterium Oxide; Electron Transport; Glycerol; Oxygen; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Knox	P P
16336186	10.1007/s10541-005-0256-3	Substitution of isoleucine L177 by histidine affects the pigment composition and properties of the reaction center of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Using site-directed mutagenesis, we obtained the mutant of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides with Ile to His substitution at position 177 in the L-subunit of the photosynthetic reaction center (RC). The mutant strain forms stable and photochemically active RC complexes. Relative to the wild type RCs, the spectral and photochemical properties of the mutant RC differ significantly in the absorption regions corresponding to the primary donor P and the monomer bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) absorption. It is shown that the RC I(L177)H contains only three BChl molecules compared to four BChl molecules in the wild type RC. Considering the fact that the properties of both isolated and membrane-associated mutant RCs are similar, we conclude that the loss of a BChl molecule from the mutant RC is caused by the introduced mutation but not by the protein purification procedure. The new mutant missing one BChl molecule but still able to perform light-induced reactions forming the charge-sepa	2006	6	9	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Histidine; Isoleucine; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khatypov	R A
16331957	10.1021/bi050839x	Time-resolved spectroscopic studies of the AppA blue-light receptor BLUF domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	AppA is a blue-light and redox-responding regulator of photosynthesis gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Detailed time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy and subpicosecond transient absorption spectroscopy study of the BLUF domain is presented for wild-type AppA (AppAwt) and a photoinactive Y21F mutant of AppA. The main findings discussed here are that (1) time-resolved laser excitation studies on dark-adapted protein show that AppAwt and Y21F mutant protein exhibits a fluorescence decay with a lifetime of 0.6 ns. Dark-adapted AppAwt but not Y21F also exhibits slower fluorescence decay with a lifetime of 1.7 ns. Analysis of AppAwt that was light-excited to a stable light-adapted form prior to data collection shows monoexponential fluorescence decay with a lifetime of 1.0 ns. This component disappeared after 1 min of data collection after which the original "dark-adapted" values were recovered, demonstrating the presence of a approximately 1 min lifetime intermediate during the	2006	2	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Flavoproteins; Light; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Time Factors	Dragnea	Vladimira
16330228	10.1016/j.jsb.2005.10.002	Architecture of the native photosynthetic apparatus of Phaeospirillum molischianum.	The ubiquity and importance of photosynthetic organisms in nature has made the molecular mechanisms of photosynthesis a widely studied subject at both structural and functional levels. A current challenge is to understand the supramolecular assembly of the proteins involved in photosynthesis in native membranes. We have used atomic force microscopy to study the architecture of the photosynthetic apparatus and analyze the structure of single molecules in chromatophores of Phaeospirillum molischianum. Core complexes are formed by the reaction center enclosed by an elliptical light harvesting complex 1. LH2 are octameric rings, assembled either with cores or in hexagonally packed LH2 antenna domains. The symmetry mismatch caused by octameric LH2 packing in a hexagonal lattice, that could be avoided in a square lattice, suggests lipophobic effects rather than specific inter-molecular interactions drive protein organization. The core and LH2 complexes are organized to form a supramolecular 	2006	3	14	J Struct Biol	Journal of structural biology	Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Fractionation; Centrifugation, Density Gradient; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Multienzyme Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodospirillum; Spectrophotometry	Gon..alves	Rui Pedro
16328987	10.1007/s10529-005-3900-5	Rhodestrin: a novel indole terpenoid phytohormone from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A new phytohormone was isolated as a metabolite of anthranilate photobiotransformation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5. It was identified by MS and NMR ((1)H, (13)C) as an indole terpenoid ester [(2E,4E,6E,8E,10E,12E,14E,16E,18E)24-hydroxy-2,6,10,14,19 pentamethyl tetrecosa-2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18 nonenyl-2(hydroxy methyl)-1H-indole-3-carboxylate] and is named as rhodestrin. Rhodestrin at 50 nM: gave positive test in auxin bioassay and initiated more profuse and early rooting in tissue-cultured plants than other auxins at 5 microM.	2006	4	10	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Biotransformation; Cotyledon; Culture Media, Conditioned; Esters; Indoles; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Structure; Photochemistry; Plant Growth Regulators; Plant Roots; Plant Shoots; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Terpenes; Triterpenes; ortho-Aminobenzoates	Sunayana	M R
16307117	10.1039/b506099k	The assembly and organisation of photosynthetic membranes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Recent AFM data demonstrate that mature photosynthetic membranes of R. sphaeroides are composed of rows of dimeric RC-LH1-PufX complexes with some LH2 complexes 'sandwiched' between these rows of core complexes, and others in discrete LH2-only domains which might form the light-responsive complement of the LH2 antenna. The present work applies membrane fractionation, radiolabelling and LDS-PAGE techniques to investigate the response of R. sphaeroides to lowered light intensity. The kinetics underlying this adaptation to low light conditions were revealed by radiolabelling with the bacteriochlorophyll (bchl) biosynthetic precursor, delta-aminolevulinate, which allowed us to measure only the bchls synthesised after the light intensity shift. We show that (1) the increase in LH2 antenna size is mainly restricted to the mature ICM membrane fraction, and the antenna composition of the precursor upper pigmented band (UPB) membrane remains constant, (2) the precursor UPB membrane is enriched 	2006	1	13	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Bacteriochlorophylls; Cell Membrane; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hunter	C Neil
16299308	10.1128/IAI.73.12.8136-8143.2005	Regulation of cellular caveolin-1 protein expression in murine macrophages by microbial products.	Previously, we reported that expression of caveolin-1 in elicited peritoneal mouse macrophages was up-regulated by remarkably low (1.0-pg/ml) concentrations of Escherichia coli O111 lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Here we report that increases in caveolin-1 expression are manifested by different types of LPS, LPS-mimetic taxol, and heat-killed E. coli and to a much lesser extent by zymosan, polysaccharide-peptidoglycan, and heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus. Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipid A (RsDPLA) could not induce caveolin-1 expression in macrophages. Interestingly, polymyxin B (5 microg/ml) and RsDPLA show only a limited capacity to inhibit LPS-induced caveolin-1 expression. These findings suggest that expression of caveolin-1 in response to LPS may only partially be dependent upon lipid A. Recombinant tumor necrosis factor alpha marginally induces caveolin-1, suggesting that the ability of LPS to regulate caveolin-1 is not mediated primarily through an autocrine/paracrine mechanism involv	2006	1	6	Infect Immun	Infection and immunity	Animals; Caveolin 1; Escherichia coli; Female; Interferon-gamma; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages, Peritoneal; Mice; Mice, Inbred Strains; Proteasome Inhibitors; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Staphylococcus aureus; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha; Up-Regulation; p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases	Lei	Mei G
16283687	10.1002/cbic.200500189	Discovery of complex mixtures of novel long-chain quorum sensing signals in free-living and host-associated marine alphaproteobacteria.	More than 100 bacterial isolates from various marine habitats were screened for AHL production by using gfp reporter constructs based on the lasR system of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the luxR system of Vibrio fischeri. Of the 67 Alphaproteobacteria tested, most of which belonged into the so-called Roseobacter clade, 39 induced fluorescence in either one or both sensor strains up to 103-fold compared to controls. Acylated homoserine lactones were identified by GC-MS analysis and shown to have chain lengths of C8, C10, C13-C16, and C18. One or two double bonds were often present, while a keto or hydroxyl group occurred only rarely in the side chain. Most strains produced several different AHLs. C18-en-HSL and C18-dien-HSL were produced by Dinoroseobacter shibae, an aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium isolated from dinoflagellates, and are among the longest AHLs found to date. Z7-C14-en-HSL, which has previously been detected in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, was produced by Roseovarius t	2006	11	22	Chembiochem	Chembiochem : a European journal of chemical biology	Alphaproteobacteria; Biosensing Techniques; Cell Communication; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Lactones; Marine Biology; Signal Transduction	Wagner-D..bler	Irene
16262784	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04900.x	The flagellar hierarchy of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is controlled by the concerted action of two enhancer-binding proteins.	The expression of the bacterial flagellar genes follows a hierarchical pattern. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides the flagellar genes encoding the hook and basal body proteins are expressed from sigma54-dependent promoters. This type of promoters is always regulated by transcriptional activators that belong to the family of the enhancer-binding proteins (EBPs). We searched for possible EBPs in the genome of R. sphaeroides and mutagenized two open reading frames (ORFs) (fleQ and fleT), which are in the vicinity of flagellar genes. The resulting mutants were non-motile and could only be complemented by the wild-type copy of the mutagenized gene. Transcriptional fusions showed that all the flagellar sigma54-dependent promoters with exception of fleTp, required both transcriptional activators for their expression. Interestingly, transcription of the fleT operon is only dependent on FleQ, and FleT has a negative effect. Both activators were capable of hydrolysing ATP, and were capable of promoting	2006	5	2	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Adenosine Triphosphate; Amino Acid Sequence; Computational Biology; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Fusion; Genes, Reporter; Genetic Complementation Test; Genome, Bacterial; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Movement; Mutagenesis; Mutation; Open Reading Frames; Protein Binding; RNA Polymerase Sigma 54; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Trans-Activators; Transcription Initiation Site; Transcription, Genetic	Poggio	Sebastian
16262252	10.1021/bi051328d	An isotope-edited FTIR investigation of the role of Ser-L223 in binding quinone (QB) and semiquinone (QB-) in the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, proton-coupled electron-transfer reactions occur at the secondary quinone (Q(B)) site. Several nearby residues are important for both binding and redox chemistry involved in the light-induced conversion from Q(B) to quinol Q(B)H(2). Ser-L223 is one of the functionally important residues located near Q(B). To obtain information on the interaction between Ser-L223 and Q(B) and Q(B)(-), isotope-edited Q(B)(-)/Q(B) FTIR difference spectra were measured in a mutant RC in which Ser-L223 is replaced with Ala and compared to the native RC. The isotope-edited IR fingerprint spectra for the C=O [see text] and C=C [see text] modes of Q(B) (Q(B)(-)) in the mutant are essentially the same as those of the native RC. These findings indicate that highly equivalent interactions of Q(B) and Q(B)(-) with the protein occur in both native and mutant RCs. The simplest explanation of these results is that Ser-L223 i	2006	2	13	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Nabedryk	Eliane
16254054	10.1073/pnas.0503826102	Induced conformational changes upon Cd2+ binding at photosynthetic reaction centers.	Cd(2+) binding at the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (bRC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is known to inhibit proton transfer (PT) from bulk solvent to the secondary quinone Q(B). To elucidate this mechanism, we calculated the pK(a) for residues along the water channels connecting Q(B) with the stromal side based on the crystal structures of WT-bRC and Cd(2+)-bound bRC. Upon Cd(2+) binding, we observed the release of two protons from His-H126/128 at the Cd(2+) binding site and significant pK(a) shifts for residues along the PT pathways. Remarkably, Asp-L213 near Q(B), which is proposed to play a significant role in PT, resulted in a decrease in pK(a) upon Cd(2+) binding. The direct electrostatic influence of the Cd(2+)-positive charge on these pK(a) shifts was small. Instead, conformational changes of amino acid side chains induced electrostatically by Cd(2+) binding were the main mechanism for these pK(a) shifts. The long-range electrostatic influence over approximately 12 A b	2005	12	12	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Binding Sites; Cadmium; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Static Electricity	Ishikita	Hiroshi
16245929	10.1021/bi051060q	Low-temperature interquinone electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Blastochloris viridis: characterization of Q(B)- states by high-frequency electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and electron-nuclear double resonance (ENDOR).	High-frequency electron paramagnetic resonance (HF EPR) techniques have been employed to look for localized light-induced conformational changes in the protein environments around the reduced secondary quinone acceptor (Q(B)(-)) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Blastochloris viridis RCs. The Q(A)(-) and Q(B)(-) radical species in Fe-removed/Zn-replaced protonated RCs substituted with deuterated quinones are distinguishable with pulsed D-band (130 GHz) EPR and provide native probes of both the low-temperature Q(A)(-)Q(B) --&gt; Q(A)Q(B)(-) electron-transfer event and the structure of trapped conformational substates. We report here the first spectroscopic evidence that cryogenically trapped, light-induced changes enable low-temperature Q(A)(-)Q(B) --&gt; Q(A)Q(B)(-) electron transfer in the B. viridis RC and the first observation of an inactive, trapped P(+)Q(B)(-) state in both R. sphaeroides and B. viridis RCs that does not recombine at 20 K. The high resolution and orientational select	2006	1	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cold Temperature; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Free Radicals; Hyphomicrobiaceae; Iron; Isotope Labeling; Kinetics; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Utschig	Lisa M
16238636	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04882.x	Light-dependent regulation of photosynthesis genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is coordinately controlled by photosynthetic electron transport via the PrrBA two-component system and the photoreceptor AppA.	Formation of the photosynthetic apparatus in Rhodobacter is regulated by oxygen tension and light intensity. Here we show that in anaerobically grown Rhodobacter cells a light-dependent increase in expression of the puc and puf operons encoding structural proteins of the photosynthetic complexes requires an active photosynthetic electron transport. The redox-sensitive CrtJ/PpsR repressor of photosynthesis genes, which was suggested to mediate electron transport-dependent signals, is not involved in this light-dependent signal chain. Our data reveal that the signal initiated in the photosynthetic reaction centre is transmitted via components of the electron transport chain and the PrrB/PrrA two-component system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Under blue light illumination in the absence of oxygen this signal leads to activation of photosynthesis genes and interferes with a blue-light repression mediated by the AppA photoreceptor and the PpsR transcriptional repressor in R. sphaeroides. Thus	2006	1	5	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Operon; Oxidation-Reduction; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Happ	Hendrik N
16238635	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04880.x	Requirements for chemotaxis protein localization in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Many proteins have recently been shown to localize to different regions of the bacterial cell. This is most striking in the case of the Escherichia coli chemotaxis pathway in which the components localize at the cell poles. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a more complex chemotaxis system with two complete pathways, each localizing to different positions, one pathway at the pole and one at a discrete cluster within the cytoplasm of the bacterium. Using genomic replacement of the wild-type chemotaxis genes in R. sphaeroides with their corresponding fluorescent protein fusions in conjunction with in frame deletions of other chemotaxis genes, we have investigated which proteins are required for the formation of the polar and cytoplasmic chemotaxis protein clusters. As in E. coli, the polarly targeted CheA and CheW homologues are required for the formation of the polar cluster. However, the formation of the cytoplasmic cluster requires the cytoplasmic chemoreceptors and CheW but not the CheAs. 	2006	1	5	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Polarity; Chemotaxis; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Wadhams	George H
16237007	10.1128/JB.187.21.7232-7242.2005	Transcriptome and physiological responses to hydrogen peroxide of the facultatively phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The transcriptome responses to hydrogen peroxide, H2O2, of the facultatively phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides grown under semiaerobic conditions were investigated. At 7 min after the addition of 1 mM H2O2, the expression of approximately 9% of all genes (total, 394) was changed reliably by at least twofold. At 30 min, the number of genes (total, 88) and the magnitude of expression changes were much lower, indicating rapid recovery from stress. Two types of responses were observed: (i) an H2O2 stress response per se and (ii) a shift to high-oxygen metabolism. The former response involved the upregulation of genes for H2O2 detoxification, protein folding and proteolysis, DNA damage repair, iron transport and storage, iron-sulfur cluster repair, and the downregulation of genes for protein translation, motility, and cell wall and lipopolysaccharide synthesis. The shift to high-oxygen metabolism was evident from the differential regulation of genes for aerobic electron transpo	2005	11	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Adaptation, Physiological; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; DNA Repair; Flagella; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hydrogen Peroxide; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles; Trans-Activators; Transcription, Genetic	Zeller	Tanja
16221580	10.1016/S0065-2911(05)50004-3	Microbial dimethylsulfoxide and trimethylamine-N-oxide respiration.	Over the last two decades, the biochemistry and genetics of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) respiration has been characterised, particularly in Escherichia coli marine bacteria of the genus Shewanella and the purple phototrophic bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and R. capsulatus. All of the enzymes (or catalytic subunits) involved the final step in DMSO and TMAO respiration contain a pterin molybdenum cofactor and are members of the DMSO reductase family of molybdoenzymes. In E. coli, the dimethylsulfoxide reductase (DmsABC) can be purified from membranes as a complex, which exhibits quinol-DMSO oxidoreductase activity. The enzyme is anchored to the membrane via the DmsC subunit and its catalytic subunit DmsA is now considered to face the periplasm. Electron transfer to DmsA involves the DmsB subunit, which is a polyferredoxin related to subunits found in other molybdoenzymes such as nitrate reductase and formate dehydrogenase. A characteristic of the DmsAB-	2006	2	16	Adv Microb Physiol	Advances in microbial physiology	Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Escherichia coli; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Methylamines; Oxidoreductases; Oxidoreductases, N-Demethylating; Rhodobacter capsulatus	McCrindle	Sharon L
16218623	10.1021/ja054015e	Magnetic field dependence of photo-CIDNP MAS NMR on photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WT.	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) is observed in frozen and quinone depleted photosynthetic reaction centers of the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type (WT) by (13)C solid-state NMR at three different magnetic fields. All light-induced signals appear to be emissive at all three fields. At 4.7 T (200 MHz proton frequency), the strongest enhancement of NMR signals is observed, which is more than 10 000 above the Boltzmann polarization. At higher fields, the enhancement factor decreases. At 17.6 T, the enhancement factor is about 60. The field dependence of the enhancement appears to be the same for all nuclei. The observed field dependence is in line with simulations that assume two competing mechanisms of polarization transfer from electrons to nuclei, three-spin mixing (TSM) and differential decay (DD). These simulations indicate a ratio of the electron spin density on the special pair cofactors is 3:2 in favor of the L-BChl during the rad	2006	1	24	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Carbon Isotopes; Computer Simulation; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Magnetics; Molecular Structure; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Reference Standards; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Prakash	Shipra
16212058		[High-order derivative spectroscopy of infrared absorption spectra of the reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	The infrared absorption spectra of reduced and chemically oxidized reaction center preparations from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated by means of high-order derivative spectroscopy. The model Gaussian band with a maximum at 810 nm and a half-band of 15 nm found in the absorption spectrum of the reduced reaction center preparation is eliminated after the oxidation of photoactive bacteriochlorophyll dimer (P). This band was related to the absorption of the P(+)y excitonic band of P. On the basis of experimental results, it was concluded that the bleaching of the P(+)y absorption band at 810 nm in the oxidized reaction center preparations gives the main contribution to the blue shift of the 800 nm absorption band of Rb. sphaeroides reaction centers.	2005	11	14	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	NA	NA
16207904	10.1099/mic.0.28167-0	Combining microarray and genomic data to predict DNA binding motifs.	The ability to detect regulatory elements within genome sequences is important in understanding how gene expression is controlled in biological systems. In this work, microarray data analysis is combined with genome sequence analysis to predict DNA sequences in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides that bind the regulators PrrA, PpsR and FnrL. These predictions were made by using hierarchical clustering to detect genes that share similar expression patterns. The DNA sequences upstream of these genes were then searched for possible transcription factor recognition motifs that may be involved in their co-regulation. The approach used promises to be widely applicable for the prediction of cis-acting DNA binding elements. Using this method the authors were independently able to detect and extend the previously described consensus sequences that have been suggested to bind FnrL and PpsR. In addition, sequences that may be recognized by the global regulator PrrA were predicted	2005	11	29	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Computational Biology; Consensus Sequence; DNA-Binding Proteins; Enhancer Elements, Genetic; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Photosynthesis; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Trans-Activators	Mao	Linyong
16181607	10.1016/j.bbabio.2005.08.005	Replacement or exclusion of the B-branch bacteriopheophytin in the purple bacterial reaction centre: the H(B) cofactor is not required for assembly or core function of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides complex.	All of the membrane-embedded cofactors of the purple bacterial reaction centre have well-defined functional or structural roles, with the exception of the bacteriopheophytin (H(B)) located approximately half-way across the membrane on the so-called inactive- or B-branch of cofactors. Sequence alignments indicate that this bacteriochlorin cofactor is a conserved feature of purple bacterial reaction centres, and a pheophytin is also found at this position in the Photosystem-II reaction centre. Possible structural or functional consequences of replacing the H(B) bacteriopheophytin by bacteriochlorophyll were investigated in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre through mutagenesis of residue Leu L185 to His (LL185H). Results from absorbance spectroscopy indicated that the LL185H mutant assembled with a bacteriochlorophyll at the H(B) position, but this did not affect the capacity of the reaction centre to support photosynthetic growth, or change the kinetics of charge separation alo	2005	12	30	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Chlorophyll; Color; Crystallography, X-Ray; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Mutation; Phenotype; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Watson	Ashley J
16173600	10.1021/es0505447	In situ electrooxidation of photobiological hydrogen in a photobioelectrochemical fuel cell based on Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this paper, we present a photobiological fuel cell that utilizes the metabolic activity of living cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides for the generation of electricity based on the in situ oxidation of photobiological hydrogen. Organic acids and alcohols contained in synthetic media as well as in fermented media of Escherichia coli K 12 served as the proton donor source for the photobiological hydrogen production by R. sphaeroides. We demonstrate thatthe photobiological hydrogen is efficiently oxidized in the microbial medium at electrocatalytic electrodes coated with a platinum-poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (Pt-PEDOT) bilayer composite. The experimental results are discussed in terms of current and power output, substrate, and solar conversion efficiency.	2005	12	14	Environ Sci Technol	Environmental science &amp; technology	Bioelectric Energy Sources; Electrochemistry; Escherichia coli; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Rosenbaum	Miriam
16172928	10.1007/s11120-005-4047-x	On the role of basic residues in adapting the reaction centre-LH1 complex for growth at elevated temperatures in purple bacteria.	The purple photosynthetic bacterium Thermochromatium tepidum is a moderate thermophile, with a growth optimum of 48-50 degrees C. The X-ray crystal structure of the reaction centre from this organism has been determined, and compared with that from mesophilic bacteria such as Blastochloris viridis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Nogi T et al. (2000) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97: 13561-13566). Structural features that could contribute to the enhanced thermal stability of the Thermochromatium tepidum reaction centre were discussed, including three arginine residues exposed at the periplasmic side of the membrane that are not present in reaction centres from mesophilic organisms, and potentially could increase the affinity of the complex for the surrounding membrane. In the present report these arginine residues, plus a histidine identified from an extensive sequence alignment, were engineered into structurally homologous positions in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre, and the effect 	2005	12	27	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Cell Proliferation; Enzyme Stability; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Denaturation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Proteobacteria; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Temperature	Watson	Ashley J
16172926	10.1007/s11120-005-5106-z	Characterization of a highly purified, fully active, crystallizable RC-LH1-PufX core complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic complexes in bacteria absorb light and undergo photochemistry with high quantum efficiency. We describe the isolation of a highly purified, active, reaction center-light-harvesting 1-PufX complex (RC-LH1-PufX core complex) from a strain of the photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which lacks the light-harvesting 2 (LH2) and contains a 6 histidine tag on the H subunit of the RC. The complex was solubilized with diheptanoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DHPC), and purified by Ni-affinity, size-exclusion and ion-exchange chromatography in dodecyl maltoside. SDS-PAGE analysis shows the complex to be highly purified. The quantum efficiency was determined by measuring the charge separation (DQA --&gt; D+QA -) in the RC as a function of light intensity. The RC-LH1-PufX complex had a quantum efficiency of 0.95 +/- 0.05, indicating full activity. The stoichiometry of LH1 subunits per RC was determined by two independent methods: (i) solvent extraction and absorbance 	2005	12	27	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Abresch	E C
16172925	10.1007/s11120-005-2748-9	Temperature broadening of LH2 absorption in glycerol solution.	In order to determine the relationship between the pigment-protein and the pigment-pigment interactions, the measurements of absorption spectra of the peripheral light-harvesting complex LH2 from the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides solvated in glycerol/buffer solution were carried out in a wide temperature range, from 4 to 250 K. The SDFs used for simulating the temperature dependence of B800 and B850 bands were determined in a parametric form. To fit experimental spectra the overall exciton-phonon coupling had to be assumed to be weak for B850 (lambda/2V approximately 0.3, where lambda is the reorganization energy and V is the nearest-neighbor dipole-dipole coupling for bacteriochlorophylls). At physiological temperatures the intermediate nuclear bath dynamics compares with the magnitude of energy gap fluctuations. Slower dynamics with kappa approximately 0.39, where kappa is the ratio of the nuclear relaxation rate and the line width parameter, determines the spectral shape o	2005	12	27	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Glycerol; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Chemical; Protein Denaturation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Solvents; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Urboniene	V
16172924	10.1007/s11120-005-2749-8	Band structure and local dynamics of excitons in bacterial light-harvesting complexes revealed by spectrally selective spectroscopy.	Hole-burned absorption and line-narrowed fluorescence spectra are studied at 5 K in wild type and mutant LH1 and LH2 antenna preparations from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Evidence was found in all samples, even in intact membranes, of the presence of a broad distribution of bacteriochlorophyll species that are unable to communicate energy between each other and to the exciton states of functional antenna complexes. The distribution maximum of these localized species determined by zero phonon hole action spectroscopy is at 783.5 nm in purified LH1 complexes and at 786.8 nm in B850-only mutant LH2 complexes. A well-resolved peak at 807 nm in LH1 complexes is assigned to the exciton band structure of functional core antenna complexes. Similar structure in LH2 complexes overlaps with the distribution of localized species. Off-diagonal (structural) disorder may be responsible for this exciton band structure. Our data also imply that pair-wise inter-chlorophy	2005	12	27	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	R..tsep	Margus
16171391	10.1021/bi051141m	G204D, a mutation that blocks the proton-conducting D-channel of the aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cytochrome c oxidase uses the free energy of oxygen reduction to establish a transmembrane proton gradient. The proton-conducting D-channel in this enzyme is the major input pathway for protons which go to the binuclear center for water formation ("chemical protons") and likely the only input pathway for protons that get translocated across the lipid membrane ("pumped protons"). The D-channel starts at an acidic residue near the protein surface (D132, Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering) and leads to another acidic residue near the binuclear center. Recent studies have shown that mutants that introduce an additional acidic residue in the channel (N139D) have the remarkable effect of accelerating steady-state oxidase activity but completely eliminating proton pumping. In this work, an aspartic acid was introduced at the position of glycine 204, G204D, which is also within the D-channel, and the effects were examined. In contrast to N139D, the G204D mutation results in a dramatic decrease 	2005	11	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arachidonic Acid; Aspartic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glycine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Han	Dan
16164369	10.1562/2005-05-31-RA-556	Thermodynamics of light-induced and thermal degradation of bacteriochlorins in reaction center protein of photosynthetic bacteria.	The rate constants of thermal (irreversible) damage of bacteriochlorin pigments (bacteriochlorophyll monomer [B], bacteriochlorophyll dimer [P] and bacteriopheophytine [H]) in reaction center [RC] protein from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides were studied in the dark and during intense (400 mW x cm(-2)) laser light excitation (wavelengths 488 and 515 nm) under deoxygenated conditions. While the kinetics of degradation of P and B were monoexponential, the decay kinetics of H were overlapped by an initial lag phase at elevated (&gt;40 degrees C) temperature. This is explained by removal of the central metal ion from the bacteriochlorophylls as part of their degradation processes. At all temperatures, the rates of damage were very similar for all bacteriochlorin pigments and were larger in the light than in the dark. The logarithm of the rate constant of pigment degradation and loss of photochemistry as a function of reciprocal (absolute) temperature (Arrhenius/Eyring 	2006	6	9	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Hot Temperature; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Tandori	J..lia
16158576		Biodegradation of azo dyes by genetically engineered azoreductase.	A azoreductase gene with 537 bp was obtained by PCR amplification from Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737. The enzyme, with a molecular weight of 18.7 kD, was efficiently expressed in Escherichia coli and its biodegradation characteristics for azo dyes were investigated. Furthermore, the reaction kinetics and mechanism of azo dyes catalyzed by the genetically engineered azoreductase were studied in detail. The presence of a hydrazo-intermediate was identified, which provided a convincing evidence for the assumption that azo dyes were degraded via an incomplete reduction stage.	2005	12	6	J Environ Sci (China)	Journal of environmental sciences (China)	Azo Compounds; Base Sequence; Biodegradation, Environmental; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Coloring Agents; DNA Primers; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Genetic Engineering; Mass Spectrometry; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Nitroreductases; Plasmids	Wang	Jing
16156667	10.1021/bi050893d	The biosynthesis of heme O and heme A is not regulated by copper.	Heme A is an obligatory cofactor in all eukaryotic and many prokaryotic cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) enzymes. Despite its obvious importance to CcO and the electron transport pathway, essentially nothing is known concerning the regulation of heme A. Because CcO is the only natural target for heme A and copper is also required for CcO activity, it was postulated that copper might regulate heme A homeostasis. Work reported previously demonstrated that there is often a strong connection between copper and iron homeostasis in general, and circumstantial evidence pointed to a possible specific link between copper and heme A. To address this question, we conducted experiments to determine rigorously whether copper plays a role in heme A homeostasis. The two enzymes responsible for the conversion of heme B to heme A, heme O synthase (HOS) and heme A synthase (HAS), were separately genomically epitope-tagged in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and their expression under various copper conditions was qu	2005	11	14	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Bacillus subtilis; Bacterial Proteins; Copper; Heme; Homeostasis; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins	Morrison	M Scott
16156652	10.1021/bi050376v	Cytochrome c oxidase as a calcium binding protein. Studies on the role of a conserved aspartate in helices XI-XII cytoplasmic loop in cation binding.	The aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidases from mitochondria and bacteria contain a cation-binding site located in subunit I near heme a. In the oxidases from Paracoccus denitrificans or Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the site is occupied by tightly bound calcium, whereas the mitochondrial oxidase binds reversibly calcium or sodium that compete with each other. The functional role of the site has not yet been established. D477A mutation in subunit I of P. denitrificans oxidase converts the cation-binding site to a mitochondrial-type form that binds reversibly calcium and sodium ions [Pfitzner, U., Kirichenko, A., et al. (1999) FEBS Lett. 456, 365-369]. We have studied reversible cation binding with P. denitrificans D477A oxidase and compared it with that in bovine enzyme. In bovine oxidase, one Ca(2+) competes with two Na(+) for the binding, indicating the presence of two Na(+)-binding sites in the enzyme, Na(+)((1)) and Na(+)((2)). In contrast, the D477A mutant of COX from P. denitrificans reveal	2005	11	14	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Calcium-Binding Proteins; Cations; Cattle; Conserved Sequence; Electron Transport Complex IV; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Paracoccus denitrificans; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Kirichenko	Anna V
16143907	10.1007/s11120-004-3197-6	Trapping of a long-living charge separated state of photosynthetic reaction centers in proteoliposomes of negatively charged phospholipids.	Reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain R-26.1 were purified and reconstituted in proteoliposomes formed by the anionic phospholipids phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylinositol and by the zwitterionic phospholipid phosphatidylcholine by size-exclusion chromatography in the dark and under illumination. We report the large stabilizing effect induced by anionic phospholipids on the protein charge separated state which results trapped in a long-living (up to tens of minutes) state with a yield up to 80%. This fully reversible state is formed in oxygenic conditions regardless the presence of the secondary quinone QB and its lifetime and relative yield increase at low pH. In proteoliposomes formed with QA-depleted reaction centers (RCs) the resulting protein is very light-sensitive and the long living charge separated state is not observed. The data collected in negatively charged proteoliposomes are discussed in terms of the electrost	2005	9	23	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ions; Molecular Structure; Phospholipids; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteolipids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Static Electricity	Agostiano	Angela
16136296	10.1007/s00203-005-0029-9	Differential regulation of periplasmic nitrate reductase gene (napKEFDABC) expression between aerobiosis and anaerobiosis with nitrate in a denitrifying phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	A denitrifying phototroph, Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans, has the ability to denitrify by respiring nitrate. The periplasmic respiratory nitrate reductase (Nap) catalyses the first step in denitrification and is encoded by the genes, napKEFDABC. By assaying the ss-galactosidase activity of napKEFD-lacZ fusions in wild type and nap mutant cells grown under various growth conditions, the environmental signal for inducing nap expression was examined. Under anoxic conditions with nitrate, nap genes expression in the wild-type strain was highest in the dark, and somewhat lowered by incident light, but that of the napA, napB, and napC mutant strains was low, showing that nap expression is dependent on nitrate respiration. Under oxic conditions, both the wild type and nap mutant cells showed high ss-galactosidase activities, comparable to the wild-type grown under anoxic conditions with nitrate. Myxothiazol, a specific inhibitor of the cytochrome bc (1) complex, did not affect 	2006	2	3	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Electron Transport Complex III; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Genes, Bacterial; Methacrylates; Mutation; Nitrate Reductases; Nitrates; Periplasm; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thiazoles	Tabata	Atsuya
16131751	10.1107/S0907444905017488	Structures of the oxidized and reduced forms of nitrite reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 at high pH: changes in the interactions of the type 2 copper.	Nitrite reductase is an enzyme operating in the denitrification pathway which catalyses the conversion of nitrite (NO2(-)) to gaseous nitric oxide (NO). Here, crystal structures of the oxidized and reduced forms of the copper-containing nitrite reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 are presented at 1.74 and 1.85 A resolution, respectively. Whereas the structure of the enzyme is very similar to those of other copper-containing nitrite reductases, folding as a trimer and containing two copper sites per monomer, the structures reported here enable conformational differences between the oxidized and reduced forms of the enzyme to be identified. In the type 1 copper site, a rotational perturbation of the side chain of the copper ligand Met182 occurs upon reduction. At the type 2 copper site, a dual conformation of the catalytic residue His287 is observed in the oxidized structure but is lacking in the reduced structure, such that the interactions of the oxidized type 2 copper ion can	2005	12	6	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Copper; Crystallography, X-Ray; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Nitrite Reductases; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jacobson	Frida
16121278	10.1039/b418442b	From primary photochemistry to biological function in the blue-light photoreceptors PYP and AppA.	To properly respond to changes in fluency conditions, Nature has developed a variety of photosensors that modulate gene expression, enzyme activity and/or motility. Dedicated types have evolved, which can be classified in six families: rhodopsins, phytochromes, xanthopsins, cryptochromes, phototropins and BLUF-proteins. The photochemistry of the first three families is based on cis/trans isomerization of an ethylene bond. Surprisingly, the latter three all use flavin as their chromophore, but each with very different photochemistry. In this contribution we will discuss the molecular basis of signal generation in a xanthopsin (Photoactive Yellow Protein (PYP) from Halorhodospira halophila), a photoreceptor for negative phototaxis, and in a BLUF protein (AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides), a transcriptional anti-repressor. PYP is activated through trans/cis isomerization of the 7,8-vinyl bond of its 4-hydroxycinnamic acid chromophore. This initiates a photocycle with multiple intermediat	2005	12	12	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Photochemistry; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Signal Transduction	van der Horst	M A
16119844		[The mechanism of acetate assimilation in purple nonsulfur bacteria lacking the glyoxylate pathway: enzymes of the citramalate cycle in Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	The mechanism of acetate assimilation by the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which lacks the glyoxylate shortcut, has been studied. In a previous work, proceeding from data on acetate assimilation by Rba. sphaeroides cell suspensions, a suggestion was made regarding the operation, in this bacterium, of the citramalate cycle. This cycle was earlier found in Rhodospirillum rubrum in the form of an anaplerotic reaction sequence that operates during growth on acetate instead of the glyoxylate shortcut, which is not present in the latter bacterium. The present work considers the enzymes responsible for acetate assimilation in Rba. sphaeroides. It is shown that this bacterium possesses the key enzymes of the citramalate cycle: citramalate synthase, which catalyzes condensation of acetyl-CoA and pyruvate and, as a result, forms citramalate, and 3-methylmalyl-CoA lyase, which catalyzes the cleavage of 3-methylmalyl-CoA to glyoxylate and propionyl-CoA. The regeneration of py	2005	10	11	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Acetates; Aconitate Hydratase; Citrate (si)-Synthase; Fumarate Hydratase; Glyoxylates; Isocitrate Dehydrogenase; Malates; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Pyruvate Kinase; Pyruvic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Filatova	L V
16119843		[The mechanism of acetate assimilation in purple nonsulfur bacteria lacking the glyoxylate pathway: acetate assimilation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells].	The mechanism of acetate assimilation in the purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which lacks the glyoxylate pathway, is studied. It is found that the growth of this bacterium in batch and continuous cultures and the assimilation of acetate in cell suspensions are not stimulated by bicarbonate. The consumption of acetate is accompanied by the excretion of glyoxylate and pyruvate into the medium, stimulated by glyoxylate and pyruvate, and inhibited by citramalate. The respiration of cells in the presence of acetate is stimulated by glyoxylate, pyruvate, citramalate, and mesaconate. These data suggest that the citramalate cycle may function in Rba. sphaeroides in the form of an anaplerotic pathway instead of the glyoxylate pathway. At the same time, the low ratio of fixation rates for bicarbonate and acetate exhibited by the Rba. sphaeroides cells (approximately 0.1), as well as the absence of the stimulatory effect of acetate on the fixation of bicarbonate in the presence	2005	10	11	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Acetates; Bicarbonates; Culture Media; Glyoxylates; Ketone Oxidoreductases; Malates; Oxygen Consumption; Pyruvate Synthase; Pyruvic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Filatova	L V
16114869	10.1021/bi051237g	Fourier transform infrared spectrum of the secondary quinone electron acceptor Q(B) in photosystem II.	Fourier transform infrared difference spectra upon single reduction of the secondary quinone electron acceptor Q(B) in photosystem II (PSII), without a contribution from the electron donor-side signals, were obtained for the first time using Mn-depleted PSII core complexes of the thermophilic cyanobacterium Thermosynechococcus elongatus. The Q(B)(-)/Q(B) difference spectrum exhibited a strong C...O stretching band of the semiquinone anion at 1480 cm(-)(1), the frequency higher by 2 cm(-)(1) than that of the corresponding band of Q(A)(-), in agreement with the previous S(2)Q(B)(-)/S(1)Q(B) spectrum of the PSII membranes of spinach [Zhang, H., Fischer, G., and Wydrzynski, T. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 5511-5517]. Also, several peaks originating from the Fermi resonance of coupled His modes with its strongly H-bonded NH vibration were observed in the 2900-2600 cm(-)(1) region, where the peak frequencies were higher by 7-24 cm(-)(1) compared with those of the Q(A)(-)/Q(A) spectrum. These freq	2005	11	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Photosystem II Protein Complex; Protein Structure, Secondary; Quinones; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Synechococcus	Suzuki	Hiroyuki
16107542	10.1073/pnas.0500722102	Structure of a bacterial BLUF photoreceptor: insights into blue light-mediated signal transduction.	Light is an essential environmental factor, and many species have evolved the capability to respond to it. Blue light is perceived through three flavin-containing photoreceptor families: cryptochromes, light-oxygen-voltage, and BLUF (sensor of blue light using flavin adenine dinucleotide, FAD) domain proteins. BLUF domains are present in various proteins from Bacteria and lower Eukarya. They are fully modular and can relay signals to structurally and functionally diverse output units, most of which are implicated in nucleotide metabolism. We present the high resolution crystal structure of the dark resting state of BlrB, a short BLUF domain-containing protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The structure reveals a previously uncharacterized FAD-binding fold. Along with other lines of evidence, it suggests mechanistic aspects for the photocycle that is characterized by a red-shifted absorbance of the flavin. The isoalloxazine ring of FAD binds in a cleft between two helices, whereas the a	2005	10	13	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Light; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Spectrophotometry	Jung	Astrid
16102008	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04783.x	Residues that influence in vivo and in vitro CbbR function in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and identification of a specific region critical for co-inducer recognition.	CbbR is a LysR-type transcriptional regulator (LTTR) that is required to activate transcription of the cbb operons, responsible for CO2 fixation, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. LTTR proteins often require a co-inducer to regulate transcription. Previous studies suggested that ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) is a positive effector for CbbR function in this organism. In the current study, RuBP was found to increase the electrophoretic mobility of the CbbR/cbb(I) promoter complex. To define and analyse the co-inducer recognition region of CbbR, constitutively active mutant CbbR proteins were isolated. Under growth conditions that normally maintain transcriptionally inactive cbb operons, the mutant CbbR proteins activated transcription. Fourteen of the constitutively active mutants resulted from a single amino acid substitution. One mutant was derived from amino acid substitutions at two separate residues that appeared to act synergistically. Different mutant proteins showed both sensitivity	2005	12	15	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; DNA-Binding Proteins; Drug Resistance; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Mutation; Operon; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulosephosphates; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; beta-Galactosidase	Dangel	Andrew W
16095555	10.1016/j.abb.2005.07.001	Two enzymes, BtaA and BtaB, are sufficient for betaine lipid biosynthesis in bacteria.	Betaine lipids are non-phosphorous glycerolipid analogs of phosphatidylcholine. The biosynthesis of the betaine lipid diacylglyceryl-N,N,N-trimethylhomoserine has previously been studied in phosphate-starved cells of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and a genetic approach identified two proteins that are necessary for this process. Here, we show that all reactions of DGTS biosynthesis in R. sphaeroides are attributable to RsBtaA and RsBtaB, as co-expression of the respective genes leads to DGTS formation in Escherichia coli, which normally lacks this lipid. The recombinant RsBtaA protein was membrane-associated and showed S-adenosylmethionine/diacylglycerol 3-amino-3-carboxypropyl transferase activity. RsBtaA directed the transfer of label from 1-[(14)C]S-adenosylmethionine or [(14)C]diacylglycerol at equal rates into the betaine lipid precursor diacylglycerylhomoserine identifying both metabolites as the substrates of the reaction. Comparative analysis of RsBtaA and its b	2005	10	28	Arch Biochem Biophys	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	Amino Acid Sequence; Aminoacyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Betaine; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Stability; Lipids; Methyltransferases; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Signal Transduction	Riekhof	Wayne R
16081134	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2005.06.014	Heavy metal ion influence on the photosynthetic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The potential of purple non-sulphur bacteria for bioremediation was assessed by investigating the ability of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain R26.1 to grow photosynthetically in heavy metal contaminated environments. Bacterial cultures were carried out in artificially polluted media, enriched with the transition metal ions Hg2+, Cu2+, Fe2+, Ni2+, Co2+, MoO4(2-), and CrO4(2-) in millimolar concentration range. For each investigated ion the effect on growth parameters was evaluated. The analysis of concentration-effect curves revealed a differentiated response, indicating that diverse mechanisms of tolerance and/or resistance are involved. Adaptation or selection procedures were not applied, leading to assess intrinsic abilities of coping with these contaminants. The microorganism proved to be highly tolerant to heavy metal exposure, especially towards Co2+, Fe2+ and MoO4(2-). In addition Ni2+ and Co2+ were found to decrease the cellular content of light harvesting complexes. A characteris	2006	4	14	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Biodegradation, Environmental; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Environmental Pollutants; Metals, Heavy; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Giotta	Livia
16060656	10.1021/bi0502902	Water chain formation and possible proton pumping routes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase: a molecular dynamics comparison of the wild type and R481K mutant.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) converts the energy from redox and oxygen chemistry to support proton translocation and create a transmembrane DeltamuH(+) used for ATP production. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were carried out to probe for the formation water chains capable of participating in proton translocation. Attention was focused on the region between and above the a and a(3) hemes where well-defined water chains have not been identified in crystallographic studies. An arginine (R481) (Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering), positioned between the D-propionates of the hemes, had been mutated in vivo to lysine and showed to have altered activity consistent with an altered proton conductance [Qian, J., Mills, D. A., Geren, L., Wang, K. F., Hoganson, C. W., Schmidt, B., Hiser, C., Babcock, G. T., Durham, B., Millett, F., and Ferguson-Miller, S. (2004) Role of the conserved arginine pair in proton and electron transfer in cytochrome c oxidase, Biochemistry 43, 5748-5756; also see the a	2005	12	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arginine; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Lysine; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Propionates; Protein Structure, Secondary; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Water	Seibold	Steve A
16052332	10.1007/s00203-005-0012-5	Role of trehalose synthesis pathways in salt tolerance mechanism of Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106.	The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides) f. sp. denitrificans IL106 accumulates trehalose as the major organic osmoprotectant in response to a salt stress. An analysis of the R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 genome sequence revealed the presence of five different genes encoding enzymes belonging to three putative trehalose biosynthesis pathways (OtsA-OtsB, TreY-TreZ, and TreS). The function of the different pathways of trehalose was studied by characterizing strains defective in individual trehalose biosynthetic routes. A phenotypic comparison revealed that trehalose synthesis in R. sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106 is mediated mainly by the OtsA-OtsB pathway and, to some extent, by the TreY-TreZ pathway. Strains with the simultaneous inactivation of these two pathways were completely unable to synthesize trehalose. On the other hand, treS mutants showed an increase in the trehalose level. These results suggest that treS plays a role in trehalose degradation. In a	2006	2	9	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Adaptation, Physiological; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Osmolar Concentration; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Chloride; Trehalose	Makihara	Fumihiro
16042616	10.1042/BST0330867	Active membrane transport and receptor proteins from bacteria.	A general strategy for the expression of bacterial membrane transport and receptor genes in Escherichia coli is described. Expression is amplified so that the encoded proteins comprise 5-35% of E. coli inner membrane protein. Depending upon their topology, proteins are produced with RGSH6 or a Strep tag at the C-terminus. These enable purification in mg quantities for crystallization and NMR studies. Examples of one nutrient uptake and one multidrug extrusion protein from Helicobacter pylori are described. This strategy is successful for membrane proteins from H. pylori, E. coli, Enterococcus faecalis, Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, Microbacterium liquefaciens, Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis, Campylobacter jejuni, Neisseria meningitides, Streptomyces coelicolor and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	2005	12	14	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport, Active; Circular Dichroism; DNA, Bacterial; Helicobacter pylori; Membrane Transport Proteins; Models, Biological; Plasmids; Restriction Mapping; Symporters	Saidijam	M
16042612	10.1042/BST0330845	Ubiquinone reduction in the photosynthetic reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: interplay between electron transfer, proton binding and flips of the quinone ring.	This review is focused on reactions that gate (control) the electron transfer between the primary quinone Q(A) and secondary quinone Q(B) in the photosynthetic reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The results on electron and proton transfer are discussed in relation to structural information and to the steered molecular dynamics simulations of the Q(B) ring flip in its binding pocket. Depending on the initial position of Q(B) in the pocket and on certain conditions, the rate of electron transfer is suggested to be limited either by the quinone ring flip or by the charge-compensating proton equilibration between the surface and the buried Q(B) site.	2005	12	14	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Mulkidjanian	A Y
16030219	10.1128/JB.187.15.5249-5258.2005	Identification of genes required for recycling reducing power during photosynthetic growth.	Photosynthetic organisms have the unique ability to transform light energy into reducing power. We study the requirements for photosynthesis in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Global gene expression analysis found that approximately 50 uncharacterized genes were regulated by changes in light intensity and O\2 tension, similar to the expression of genes known to be required for photosynthetic growth of this bacterium. These uncharacterized genes included RSP4157 to -4159, which appeared to be cotranscribed and map to plasmid P004. A mutant containing a polar insertion in RSP4157, CT01, was able to grow via photosynthesis under autotrophic conditions using H2 as an electron donor and CO2 as a carbon source. However, CT01 was unable to grow photoheterotrophically in a succinate-based medium unless compounds that could be used to recycle reducing power (the external electron acceptor dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or CO2 were provided. This suggests that the insertion in RSP4	2005	8	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Genes, Bacterial; Light; Multigene Family; Mutation; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tavano	Christine L
16008347	10.1021/bi050651d	Interactions between cytochrome c2 and the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: the cation-pi interaction.	The cation-pi interaction between positively charged and aromatic groups is a common feature of many proteins and protein complexes. The structure of the complex between cytochrome c(2) (cyt c(2)) and the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides exhibits a cation-pi complex formed between Arg-C32 on cyt c(2) and Tyr-M295 on the RC [Axelrod, H. L., et al. (2002) J. Mol. Biol. 319, 501-515]. The importance of the cation-pi interaction for binding and electron transfer was studied by mutating Tyr-M295 and Arg-C32. The first- and second-order rates for electron transfer were not affected by mutating Tyr-M295 to Ala, indicating that the cation-pi complex does not greatly affect the association process or structure of the state active in electron transfer. The dissociation constant K(D) showed a greater increase when Try-M295 was replaced with nonaromatic Ala (3-fold) as opposed to aromatic Phe (1.2-fold), which is characteristic of a cation-pi interaction. Replacemen	2005	10	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acids, Aromatic; Arginine; Binding Sites; Cations; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Thermodynamics; Tyrosine	Paddock	M L
15989253		[Molecular diversity and phylogenetic analysis of nitrogen-fixing (nifH) genes in alp prairie soil of Sanjiangyuan natural reserve].	Research on the diversity of microorganism community in natural environment has been concerned hot spot using the newly molecular biotechnology in the world now. This was the first description of the molecular diversity and phylogenetic analysis of nitrogen-fixing (nifH) genes in alp prairie soil of Sanjiangyuan natural reserve. DNA was directly extracted from the soil microorganism and amplified the nifH gene fragment using PCR by the primers of nifH-34F 5'-AAAGG(C/T)GG(A/T) ATCGG(C/T)AA(A/G) TCCACCAC-3' and nifH-491R 5'-TYGTT(G/C)GC(G/C)GC(A/G)TACAT(G/C)G CCATCAT-3'. For the gene fragment, diverse PCR products were characterized by cloning, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and sequencing. 143 clones and 35 different RFLP patterns were received in two samples by the restriction enzymes MspI and RsaI digested. ZD sample had 82 clones and 21 different RFLP patterns, and YS sample had 61 clones and 19 different RFLP patterns. There were shared 5 RFLP patterns in t	2006	9	1	Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao	Wei sheng wu xue bao = Acta microbiologica Sinica	Bacteria; DNA, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Nitrogen Fixation; Nitrogenase; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Soil Microbiology	Zhang	Yu-guang
15984875	10.1021/ja043994s	ENDOR investigation of the liganding environment of mixed-spin ferric cytochrome c'.	The electronic structure of the 5-coordinate quantum-mechanically mixed-spin (sextet-quartet) heme center in cytochrome c' was investigated by electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR), a technique not previously applied to this mixed-spin system. Cytochrome c' was obtained from overexpressing variants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3. ENDOR for this study was done at the g(//) = 2.00 extremum where single-crystal-like, well-resolved spectra prevail. The heme meso protons of cytochrome c' showed a contact interaction that implied spin delocalization arising from the heme (d(z)(2)) orbital enhanced by iron out-of-planarity. An exchangeable proton ENDOR feature appeared from the proximal His123 Ndelta hydrogen. This Ndelta hydrogen, which crystallographically has no hydrogen-bonding partner and thus belongs to a neutral imidazole, showed a larger hyperfine coupling than the corresponding hydrogen-bonded Ndelta proton from metmyoglobin. The unique residue Phe14 occludes binding of a sixth	2005	12	5	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Binding Sites; Coumarins; Cytochromes c'; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Ferric Compounds; Heme; Histidine; Hydrogen; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron; Ligands; Nitrogen; Phenylalanine; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Usov	Oleg M
15977062	10.1007/s11120-005-1368-8	The structure and function of the cytochrome c2: reaction center electron transfer complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the mobile electron carrier, cytochrome c2 (cyt c2) transfers an electron from reduced heme to the photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer in the membrane bound reaction center (RC) as part of the light induced cyclic electron transfer chain. A complex between these two proteins that is active in electron transfer has been crystallized and its structure determined by X-ray diffraction. The structure of the cyt:RC complex shows the cyt c2 (cyt c2) positioned at the center of the periplasmic surface of the RC. The exposed heme edge from cyt c2 is in close tunneling contact with the electron acceptor through an intervening bridging residue, Tyr L162 located on the RC surface directly above the bacteriochlorophyll dimer. The binding interface between the two proteins can be divided into two regions: a short-range interaction domain and a long-range interaction domain. The short-range domain includes residues immediately surrounding 	2006	1	11	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Axelrod	Herbert L
15948946	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2005.04655.x	PpsR: a multifaceted regulator of photosynthesis gene expression in purple bacteria.	Purple bacteria control the level of expression and the composition of their photosystem according to light and redox conditions. This control involves several regulatory systems that have been now well characterized. Among them, the PpsR regulator plays a central role, because it directly or indirectly controls the synthesis of all of the different components of the photosystem. In this review, we report our knowledge of the PpsR protein, highlighting the diversity of its mode of action and focusing on the proteins identified in four model purple bacteria (Rhodobacter capsulatus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rubrivivax gelatinosus, Bradyrhizobium ORS278). This regulator exhibits unique regulatory features in each bacterium: it can activate and/or repress the expression of photosynthesis genes, its activity can be modulated or not by the redox conditions, it can interact with other specific regulators and therefore be involved differently in light and/or redox regulatory circuits.	2005	8	25	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Bradyrhizobium; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter	Elsen	Sylvie
15942000	10.1099/mic.0.27789-0	Photo-oxidative stress in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: protective role of carotenoids and expression of selected genes.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, carotenoids are essential constituents of the photosynthetic apparatus and are assumed to prevent the formation of singlet oxygen by quenching of triplet bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) in vivo. It was shown that small amounts of singlet oxygen are generated in vivo by incubation of R. sphaeroides under high light conditions. However, growth and survival rates were not affected. Higher amounts of singlet oxygen were generated by BChl a in a carotenoid-deficient strain and led to a decrease in growth and survival rates. The data support earlier results on the pivotal role of carotenoids in the defence against stress caused by singlet oxygen. Results obtained under photo-oxidative stress conditions with strains impaired in carotenoid synthesis suggest that sphaeroidene and neurosporene provide less protection against methylene-blue-generated singlet oxygen than sphaeroidenone in vivo. Despite their protective function against singlet oxygen, relative amounts of	2005	11	15	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Adaptation, Physiological; Carotenoids; Catalase; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glutathione Peroxidase; Hydrolases; Oxidative Stress; Oxidoreductases; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription, Genetic	Glaeser	Jens
15937492	10.1038/nsmb948	Conformational regulation of charge recombination reactions in a photosynthetic bacterial reaction center.	In bright light the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides stabilizes the P(+)(870).Q(-)(A) charge-separated state and thereby minimizes the potentially harmful effects of light saturation. Using X-ray diffraction we report a conformational change that occurs within the cytoplasmic domain of this RC in response to prolonged illumination with bright light. Our observations suggest a novel structural mechanism for the regulation of electron transfer reactions in photosynthesis.	2005	8	26	Nat Struct Mol Biol	Nature structural &amp; molecular biology	Crystallography; Electron Transport; Light; Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Diffraction	Katona	Gergely
15937170	10.1128/JB.187.12.4077-4085.2005	Regulation and function of cytochrome c' in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3.	Cytochrome c' (Cyt c') is a c-type cytochrome with a pentacoordinate heme iron. The gene encoding this protein in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3, designated cycP, was isolated and sequenced. Northern blot analysis and beta-galactosidase assays demonstrated that cycP transcription increased as oxygen levels decreased and was not repressed under denitrifying conditions as observed in another Rhodobacter species. CO difference spectra performed with extracts of cells grown under different conditions revealed that Cyt c' levels were highest during photosynthetic denitrifying growth conditions. The increase in Cyt c' under this condition was higher than would be predicted from transcriptional studies. Electron paramagnetic resonance analysis of whole cells demonstrated that Cyt c' binds NO during denitrification. Mass spectrometric analysis of nitrogen oxides produced by cells and purified protein did not indicate that Cyt c' has NO reductase activity. Taken together, these results suggest a	2005	7	6	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Cytochromes c'; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Nitric Oxide; Nitrogen; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic; Up-Regulation	Choi	Peter S
15924418	10.1021/bi0502691	Structure of a novel photoreceptor, the BLUF domain of AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The flavin-binding BLUF domain of AppA represents a new class of blue light photoreceptors that are present in a number of bacterial and algal species. The dark state X-ray structure of this domain was determined at 2.3 A resolution. The domain demonstrates a new function for the common ferredoxin-like fold; two long alpha-helices flank the flavin, which is bound with its isoalloxazine ring perpendicular to a five-stranded beta-sheet. The hydrogen bond network and the overall protein topology of the BLUF domain (but not its sequence) bear some resemblance to LOV domains, a subset of PAS domains widely involved in signaling. Nearly all residues conserved in BLUF domains surround the flavin chromophore, many of which are involved in an intricate hydrogen bond network. Photoactivation may induce a rearrangement in this network via reorientation of the Gln63 side chain to form a new hydrogen bond to the flavin O4 position. This shift would also break a hydrogen bond to the Trp104 side chai	2005	8	26	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Darkness; Dimerization; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Glutamine; Hydrogen Bonding; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Sequence Data; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Protein Folding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Anderson	Spencer
15912963		TLR4 antagonists for endotoxemia and beyond.	Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) controls the major responding signaling system that detects the presence of Gram-negative infectious pathogens, by responding to endotoxin from their outer membrane. Normally, TLR-bearing cells signal the immune system to mount a pro-inflammatory, antibacterial response and resolve infection. However, TLR4 can also respond to a variety of 'endogenous' ligands, such as fibronectin and heat shock proteins. Overstimulation or continued stimulation of TLR4 by any ligand can result in a systemic inflammatory response, progressing to hypotension, shock, organ failure and even death. This review discusses current, preclinical and clinical research regarding eritoran (E-5564), an analog of the non-toxic lipid A from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, as well as other antagonists of TLR4 in a variety of diseases.	2005	12	1	Curr Opin Investig Drugs	Current opinion in investigational drugs (London, England : 2000)	Animals; Endotoxemia; Humans	Rossignol	Daniel P
15909199	10.1007/s00249-005-0469-9	Investigation of ubiquinol formation in isolated photosynthetic reaction centers by rapid-scan Fourier transform IR spectroscopy.	Light-induced formation of ubiquinol-10 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers was followed by rapid-scan Fourier transform IR difference spectroscopy, a technique that allows the course of the reaction to be monitored, providing simultaneously information on the redox states of cofactors and on protein response. The spectrum recorded between 4 and 29 ms after the second flash showed bands at 1,470 and 1,707 cm(-1), possibly due to a QH(-) intermediate state. Spectra recorded at longer delay times showed a different shape, with bands at 1,388 (+) and 1,433 (+) cm(-1) characteristic of ubiquinol. These spectra reflect the location of the ubiquinol molecule outside the Q(B) binding site. This was confirmed by Fourier transform IR difference spectra recorded during and after continuous illumination in the presence of an excess of exogenous ubiquinone molecules, which revealed the process of ubiquinol formation, of ubiquinone/ubiquinol exchange at the Q(B) site and between detergent m	2006	2	1	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Cells, Cultured; Computer Systems; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Ubiquinone	Mezzetti	Alberto
15908429	10.1074/jbc.M501961200	Strong effects of an individual water molecule on the rate of light-driven charge separation in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center.	The role of a water molecule (water A) located between the primary electron donor (P) and first electron acceptor bacteriochlorophyll (B(A)) in the purple bacterial reaction center was investigated by mutation of glycine M203 to leucine (GM203L). The x-ray crystal structure of the GM203L reaction center shows that the new leucine residue packs in such a way that water A is sterically excluded from the complex, but the structure of the protein-cofactor system around the mutation site is largely undisturbed. The results of absorbance and resonance Raman spectroscopy were consistent with either the removal of a hydrogen bond interaction between water A and the keto carbonyl group of B(A) or a change in the local electrostatic environment of this carbonyl group. Similarities in the spectroscopic properties and x-ray crystal structures of reaction centers with leucine and aspartic acid mutations at the M203 position suggested that the effects of a glycine to aspartic acid substitution at th	2005	9	9	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Water	Potter	Jane A
15907932	10.1016/j.jmb.2005.04.032	The 8.5A projection structure of the core RC-LH1-PufX dimer of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Two-dimensional crystals of dimeric photosynthetic reaction centre-LH1-PufX complexes have been analysed by cryoelectron microscopy. The 8.5A resolution projection map extends previous analyses of complexes within native membranes to reveal the alpha-helical structure of two reaction centres and 28 LH1 alphabeta subunits within the dimer. For the first time, we have achieved sufficient resolution to suggest a possible location for the PufX transmembrane helix, the orientation of the RC and the arrangement of helices within the surrounding LH1 complex. Whereas low-resolution projections have shown an apparent break in the LH1, our current map reveals a diffuse density within this region, possibly reflecting high mobility. Within this region the separation between beta14 of one monomer and beta2 of the other monomer is approximately 6A larger than the average beta-beta spacing within LH1; we propose that this is sufficient for exchange of quinol at the RC Q(B) site. We have determined th	2005	7	25	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Bacterial Proteins; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
15900970	10.1016/j.syapm.2004.12.004	Isolation and characterization of heterotrophic bacteria able to grow aerobically with quaternary ammonium alcohols as sole source of carbon and nitrogen.	The quaternary ammonium alcohols (QAAs) 2,3-dihydroxypropyl-trimethyl-ammonium (TM), dimethyl-diethanol-ammonium (DM) and methyl-triethanol-ammonium (MM) are hydrolysis products of their parent esterquat surfactants, which are widely used as softeners in fabric care. We isolated several bacteria growing with QAAs as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. The strains were compared with a previously isolated TM-degrading bacterium, which was identified as a representative of the species Pseudomonas putida (Syst. Appl. Microbiol. 24 (2001) 252). Two bacteria were isolated with DM, referred to as strains DM 1 and DM 2, respectively. Based on 16S-rDNA analysis, they provided 97% (DM 1) and 98% (DM 2) identities to the closest related strain Zoogloea ramigera Itzigsohn 1868AL. Both strains were long, slim, motile rods but only DM 1 showed the floc forming activity, which is typical for representatives of the genus Zoogloea. Using MM we isolated a Gram-negative, non-motile rod referred to as	2005	8	4	Syst Appl Microbiol	Systematic and applied microbiology	Bacterial Typing Techniques; Biodegradation, Environmental; Carbon; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Deanol; Genes, rRNA; Molecular Sequence Data; Nitrogen; Propanols; Quaternary Ammonium Compounds; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Surface-Active Agents; Zoogloea	Kaech	Andres
15886079	10.1016/j.bbapap.2005.03.004	Internal dynamics and protein-matrix coupling in trehalose-coated proteins.	We review recent studies on the role played by non-liquid, water-containing matrices on the dynamics and structure of embedded proteins. Two proteins were studied, in water-trehalose matrices: a water-soluble protein (carboxy derivative of horse heart myoglobin) and a membrane protein (reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides). Several experimental techniques were used: Mossbauer spectroscopy, elastic neutron scattering, FTIR spectroscopy, CO recombination after flash photolysis in carboxy-myoglobin, kinetic optical absorption spectroscopy following pulsed and continuous photoexcitation in Q(B) containing or Q(B) deprived reaction centre from R. sphaeroides. Experimental results, together with the outcome of molecular dynamics simulations, concurred to give a picture of how water-containing matrices control the internal dynamics of the embedded proteins. This occurs, in particular, via the formation of hydrogen bond networks that anchor the protein surface to the surrounding matrix	2005	8	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Computer Simulation; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Myoglobin; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature; Trehalose; Water	Cordone	Lorenzo
15878858	10.1074/jbc.M503319200	The iron-sulfur cluster of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein functions as a proton-exiting gate in the cytochrome bc(1) complex.	The destruction of the Rieske iron-sulfur cluster ([2Fe-2S]) in the bc(1) complex by hematoporphyrin-promoted photoinactivation resulted in the complex becoming proton-permeable. To study further the role of this [2Fe-2S] cluster in proton translocation of the bc(1) complex, Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants expressing His-tagged cytochrome bc(1) complexes with mutations at the histidine ligands of the [2Fe-2S] cluster were generated and characterized. These mutants lacked the [2Fe-2S] cluster and possessed no bc(1) activity. When the mutant complex was co-inlaid in phospholipid vesicles with intact bovine mitochondrial bc(1) complex or cytochrome c oxidase, the proton ejection, normally observed in intact reductase or oxidase vesicles during the oxidation of their corresponding substrates, disappeared. This indicated the creation of a proton-leaking channel in the mutant complex, whose [2Fe-2S] cluster was lacking. Insertion of the bc(1) complex lacking the head domain of the Rieske iro	2005	8	16	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Animals; Biological Transport; Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Blotting, Western; Catalysis; Cattle; Circular Dichroism; Dimerization; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Electron Transport Complex IV; Electrons; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia; Histidine; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Ligands; Light; Mitochondria; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxygen; Phospholipids; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Transport; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors	Gurung	Buddha
15865437	10.1021/bi047559m	Quinone (QB) reduction by B-branch electron transfer in mutant bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: quantum efficiency and X-ray structure.	The photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from purple bacteria converts light into chemical energy. Although the RC shows two nearly structurally symmetric branches, A and B, light-induced electron transfer in the native RC occurs almost exclusively along the A-branch to a primary quinone electron acceptor Q(A). Subsequent electron and proton transfer to a mobile quinone molecule Q(B) converts it to a quinol, Q(B)H(2). We report the construction and characterization of a series of mutants in Rhodobacter sphaeroides designed to reduce Q(B) via the B-branch. The quantum efficiency to Q(B) via the B-branch Phi(B) ranged from 0.4% in an RC containing the single mutation Ala-M260 --&gt; Trp to 5% in a quintuple mutant which includes in addition three mutations to inhibit transfer along the A-branch (Gly-M203 --&gt; Asp, Tyr-M210 --&gt; Phe, Leu-M214 --&gt; His) and one to promote transfer along the B-branch (Phe-L181 --&gt; Tyr). Comparing the value of 0.4% for Phi(B) obtained in the AW(M260)	2005	7	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Lasers; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Pheophytins; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Paddock	M L
15863097	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.12.006	Investigation of B-branch electron transfer by femtosecond time resolved spectroscopy in a Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre that lacks the Q(A) ubiquinone.	The dynamics of electron transfer in a membrane-bound Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre containing a combination of four mutations were investigated by transient absorption spectroscopy. The reaction centre, named WAAH, has a mutation that causes the reaction centre to assemble without a Q(A) ubiquinone (Ala M260 to Trp), a mutation that causes the replacement of the H(A) bacteriopheophytin with a bacteriochlorophyll (Leu M214 to His) and two mutations that remove acidic groups close to the Q(B) ubiquinone (Glu L212 to Ala and Asp L213 to Ala). Previous work has shown that the Q(B) ubiquinone is reduced by electron transfer along the so-called inactive cofactor branch (B-branch) in the WAAH reaction centre (M.C. Wakeham, M.G. Goodwin, C. McKibbin, M.R. Jones, Photo-accumulation of the P(+)Q(B)(-) radical pair state in purple bacterial reaction centres that lack the Q(A) ubiquinone, FEBS Letters 540 (2003) 234-240). In the present study the dynamics of electron transfer in the mem	2005	7	14	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Fourier Analysis; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation, Missense; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors; Ubiquinone	Frolov	Dmitrij
15855269	10.1073/pnas.0502225102	A transcriptional response to singlet oxygen, a toxic byproduct of photosynthesis.	The ability of phototrophs to convert light into biological energy is critical for life on Earth. However, there can be deleterious consequences associated with this bioenergetic conversion, including the production of toxic byproducts. For example, singlet oxygen (1O2) can be formed during photosynthesis by energy transfer from excited triplet-state chlorophyll pigments to O2. By monitoring gene expression and growth in the presence of 1O2, we show that the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides mounts a transcriptional response to this reactive oxygen species (ROS) that requires the alternative sigma factor, sigma(E). An increase in sigma(E) activity is seen when cells are exposed to 1O2 generated either by photochemistry within the photosynthetic apparatus or the photosensitizer, methylene blue. Wavelengths of light responsible for the generating triplet-state chlorophyll pigments in the photosynthetic apparatus are sufficient for a sustained increase in sigma(E) activity. C	2005	8	1	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Carotenoids; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Methylene Blue; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Photosensitizing Agents; Photosynthesis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Spectrophotometry; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; beta-Galactosidase	Anthony	Jennifer R
15848227	10.1016/j.plasmid.2004.11.005	Cloning and characterization of a region responsible for the maintenance of megaplasmid pTAV3 of Paracoccus versutus UW1.	Using cointegrate formation, we constructed a basic replicon of the megaplasmid/mini-chromosome pTAV3 of Paracoccus versutus UW1. It is composed of two adjacent modules, responsible for plasmid replication (rep) and partitioning (par). Functional analysis of the par region identified a determinant of incompatibility (inc2), whose presence is crucial for proper partitioning (the partitioning site). Database searches revealed that the only known replicon with significant homology to that of pTAV3 is encoded by the chromosome cII of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. Incompatibility studies showed that closely related basic replicons are also encoded by megaplasmids (above 400 kb) harbored by four strains of P. pantotrophus. Basic replicons of the pTAV3-type are able to maintain large bacterial genomes, therefore they appear to be good candidates for the construction of vectors specific for Alphaproteobacteria.	2005	8	16	Plasmid	Plasmid	Base Sequence; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Cloning, Molecular; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Genes, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Operon; Paracoccus; Plasmids; Repetitive Sequences, Nucleic Acid; Replicon; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Transformation, Bacterial	Dolowy	Patrycja
15822112	10.1002/prot.20437	How does nitrous oxide reductase interact with its electron donors?--A docking study.	Electron transfer reactions are crucial for respiration and denitrification. In this article, we analyze the interaction of nitrous oxide reductase with its electron donors cytochrome c550 and pseudoazurin. Our docking protocol comprises generation of candidate complexes followed by a selection step based on the distance of the donor and acceptor groups in each partner protein. Finally, the structures of the candidate complexes were optimized using a force field calculation, together with a second distance filtering step. The prediction power of this protocol was studied using the crystal structure of the cytochrome c2/photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a reference. The results suggest that both cytochrome c550 and pseudoazurin bind at the same hydrophobic surface patch residing near the CuA center of nitrous oxide reductase. The central, well-conserved interaction surface of the donors is hydrophobic, but it is surrounded by numerous lysine side-chains, which	2006	3	13	Proteins	Proteins	Azurin; Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Electrons; Gene Deletion; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mattila	Kimmo
15805591	10.1107/S0907444904034390	Structure of zinc-independent sorbitol dehydrogenase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 2.4 A resolution.	Recombinant sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been crystallized in the absence of the cofactor NAD(H) and its structure determined to 2.4 A resolution using molecular replacement (refined R and R free factors of 18.8 and 23.8%, respectively). As expected from the sequence and shown by the conserved fold, SDH can be assigned to the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase protein family. The cofactor NAD and the substrate sorbitol have been modelled into the structure and the active-site architecture, which displays the highly conserved catalytic tetrad of Asn-Ser-Tyr-Lys residues, is discussed in relation to the enzyme mechanism. This is the first structure of a bacterial SDH belonging to the SDR family.	2005	8	29	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Binding Sites; Crystallography; L-Iditol 2-Dehydrogenase; NAD; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sorbitol	Philippsen	Ansgar
15794650	10.1021/bi0478493	Design and expression of cysteine-bearing hydrophobic polypeptides and their self-assembling properties with bacteriochlorophyll a derivatives as a mimic of bacterial photosynthetic antenna complexes. Effect of steric confinement and orientation of the polypeptides on the pigment/polypeptide assembly process.	A series of cysteine-bearing hydrophobic polypeptides analogous to a light-harvesting one betapolypeptide (LH1beta) from the LH1 complex from the purple photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, was synthesized using an Escherichia coli expression system. The cysteine was placed in the C- or N-terminal regions of the polypeptide to investigate the influence of steric confinement and orientation of the polypeptides via disulfide linkages as they were self-assembled with zinc-substituted bacteriochlorophyll a ([Zn]-BChl a). The polypeptides were expressed as water-soluble fusion proteins with maltose-binding protein (MBP). The fusion proteins formed a subunit-type complex with the [Zn]-BChl a in an n-octyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside (OG) micellar solution regardless of the cross-links or the cleavage of the cysteines, judging from absorption, CD, and fluorescence spectra. Following treatment with trypsin, the polypeptides were detached from the MBP portion. Such trypsin-digested pol	2005	5	25	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Base Sequence; Cysteine; DNA, Bacterial; Hydrolysis; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Macromolecular Substances; Models, Molecular; Molecular Mimicry; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptides; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrophotometry	Dewa	Takehisa
15764605	10.1074/jbc.C500061200	Assembly of cytochrome-c oxidase in the absence of assembly protein Surf1p leads to loss of the active site heme.	Surf1p is a protein of the inner membrane of mitochondria that functions in the assembly of cytochrome-c oxidase. The specifics of the role of Surf1p have remained unresolved. Numerous mutations in human Surf1p lead to severe mitochondrial disease. A homolog of human Surf1p is encoded by the genome of the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which synthesizes a mitochondrial-like aa(3)-type cytochrome-c oxidase. The gene for Surf1p was deleted from the genome of R. sphaeroides. The resulting aa(3)-type oxidase was purified and analyzed by biochemical methods plus optical and EPR spectroscopy. The oxidase that assembled in the absence of Surf1p was composed of three subpopulations with structurally distinct heme a(3)-Cu active sites. 50% of the oxidase lacked heme a(3), 10-15% contained heme a(3) but lacked Cu(BB), and 35-40% had a normal heme a(3) -Cu(B) active site with normal activity. Cu(A) assembly was unaffected. All of the oxidase contained low-spin heme a, but the envi	2005	9	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Deletion; Heme; Humans; Membrane Proteins; Mitochondrial Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Smith	Daniel
15751942	10.1021/bi047359a	Photocycle of the flavin-binding photoreceptor AppA, a bacterial transcriptional antirepressor of photosynthesis genes.	The flavoprotein AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides contains an N-terminal domain belonging to a new class of photoreceptors designated BLUF domains. AppA was shown to control photosynthesis gene expression in response to blue light and oxygen tension. We have investigated the photocycle of the AppA BLUF domain by ultrafast fluorescence, femtosecond transient absorption, and nanosecond flash-photolysis spectroscopy. Time-resolved fluorescence experiments revealed four components of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) excited-state decay, with lifetimes of 25 ps, 150 ps, 670 ps, and 3.8 ns. Ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy revealed rapid internal conversion and vibrational cooling processes on excited FAD with time constants of 250 fs and 1.2 ps, and a multiexponential decay with effective time constants of 90 ps, 590 ps, and 2.7 ns. Concomitant with the decay of excited FAD, the rise of a species with a narrow absorption difference band near 495 nm was detected which spectrally	2005	6	7	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Cryptochromes; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Models, Chemical; Nanotechnology; Peptide Fragments; Photolysis; Photosynthesis; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Transcription Factors	Gauden	Magdalena
15743963	10.1128/JB.187.6.2148-2156.2005	Transcriptome analysis of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PpsR regulon: PpsR as a master regulator of photosystem development.	PpsR from the anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been known as an oxygen- and light-dependent repressor of bacteriochlorophyll and carotenoid biosynthesis genes and puc operons involved in photosystem development. However, the putative PpsR-binding sites, TGTN12ACA, are also located upstream of numerous nonphotosystem genes, thus raising the possibility that the role of PpsR is broader. To characterize the PpsR regulon, transcriptome profiling was performed on the wild-type strain grown at high and low oxygen tensions, on the strain overproducing PpsR, and on the ppsR mutant. Transcriptome analysis showed that PpsR primarily regulates photosystem genes; the consensus PpsR binding sequence is TGTcN10gACA (lowercase letters indicate lesser conservation); the presence of two binding sites is required for repression in vivo. These findings explain why numerous single TGTN12ACA sequences are nonfunctional. In addition to photosystem genes, the hemC and hemE genes 	2005	4	7	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Regulon; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Moskvin	Oleg V
15740753	10.1016/j.jmb.2005.01.017	Solution structures of the core light-harvesting alpha and beta polypeptides from Rhodospirillum rubrum: implications for the pigment-protein and protein-protein interactions.	We have determined the solution structures of the core light-harvesting (LH1) alpha and beta-polypeptides from wild-type purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum using multidimensional NMR spectroscopy. The two polypeptides form stable alpha helices in organic solution. The structure of alpha-polypeptide consists of a long helix of 32 amino acid residues over the central transmembrane domain and a short helical segment at the N terminus that is followed by a three-residue loop. Pigment-coordinating histidine residue (His29) in the alpha-polypeptide is located near the middle of the central helix. The structure of beta-polypeptide shows a single helix of 32 amino acid residues in the membrane-spanning region with the pigment-coordinating histidine residue (His38) at a position close to the C-terminal end of the helix. Strong hydrogen bonds have been identified for the backbone amide protons over the central helical regions, indicating a rigid property of the two polypeptide	2005	4	18	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Circular Dichroism; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Subunits; Rhodospirillum rubrum	Wang	Zheng-Yu
15726442	10.1007/s10295-004-0193-y	Production of a novel indole ester from 2-aminobenzoate by Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5.	Culture supernatants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 grown in the presence of 2-aminobenzoate gave an orange-red color-reaction with Salper's reagent, suggesting the presence of an indole derivative. This production was light-dependent and inducible only with 2-aminobenzoate. Replacement of 2-aminobenzoate with other 2-substituted benzoates did not result in the formation of indole. Fumarate appeared to be the conjugating molecule with 2-aminobenzoate, resulting in the formation of an indole derivative. The purified indole derivative was orange-brown in color, with a yields 0.34 mM from 1 mM 2-aminobenzoate. Infrared analysis suggested an indole ester and (1)H NMR analysis indicated an indole carboxylate, esterified with a terpenoid alcohol. The indole ester has a mass of 441 with the molecular formula C(27)H(39)NO(4). The IUPAC name of the compound is (3 E,5 E)-14-hydroxy-3,7,11-trimethyl-3,5-tetradecadienyl 2-(hydroxymethyl)-1 H-indole-3-carboxylate; and the common name given to this 	2005	10	19	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Biotransformation; Fumarates; Indoles; Light; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; ortho-Aminobenzoates	Sunayana	M R
15716440	10.1128/JB.187.5.1695-1701.2005	A chimeric N-terminal Escherichia coli--C-terminal Rhodobacter sphaeroides FliG rotor protein supports bidirectional E. coli flagellar rotation and chemotaxis.	Flagellate bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium typically express 5 to 12 flagellar filaments over their cell surface that rotate in clockwise (CW) and counterclockwise directions. These bacteria modulate their swimming direction towards favorable environments by biasing the direction of flagellar rotation in response to various stimuli. In contrast, Rhodobacter sphaeroides expresses a single subpolar flagellum that rotates only CW and responds tactically by a series of biased stops and starts. Rotor protein FliG transiently links the MotAB stators to the rotor, to power rotation and also has an essential function in flagellar export. In this study, we sought to determine whether the FliG protein confers directionality on flagellar motors by testing the functional properties of R. sphaeroides FliG and a chimeric FliG protein, EcRsFliG (N-terminal and central domains of E. coli FliG fused to an R. sphaeroides FliG C terminus), in an E. coli FliG 	2005	3	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Conserved Sequence; Escherichia coli; Flagella; Gene Expression; Genetic Complementation Test; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rotation; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Morehouse	Karen A
15716428	10.1128/JB.187.5.1581-1590.2005	Experimental identification and quantification of glucose metabolism in seven bacterial species.	The structurally conserved and ubiquitous pathways of central carbon metabolism provide building blocks and cofactors for the biosynthesis of cellular macromolecules. The relative uses of pathways and reactions, however, vary widely among species and depend upon conditions, and some are not used at all. Here we identify the network topology of glucose metabolism and its in vivo operation by quantification of intracellular carbon fluxes from 13C tracer experiments. Specifically, we investigated Agrobacterium tumefaciens, two pseudomonads, Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Zymomonas mobilis, and Paracoccus versutus, which grow on glucose as the sole carbon source, represent fundamentally different metabolic lifestyles (aerobic, anaerobic, photoheterotrophic, and chemoheterotrophic), and are phylogenetically distinct (firmicutes, gamma-proteobacteria, and alpha-proteobacteria). Compared to those of the model bacteria Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis, metabolisms of th	2005	3	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Bacteria; Glucose; Glycolysis; Phylogeny; Species Specificity	Fuhrer	Tobias
15701786	10.1128/EC.4.2.242-252.2005	Annotation of genes involved in glycerolipid biosynthesis in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii: discovery of the betaine lipid synthase BTA1Cr.	Lipid metabolism in flowering plants has been intensely studied, and knowledge regarding the identities of genes encoding components of the major fatty acid and membrane lipid biosynthetic pathways is very extensive. We now present an in silico analysis of fatty acid and glycerolipid metabolism in an algal model, enabled by the recent availability of expressed sequence tag and genomic sequences of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Genes encoding proteins involved in membrane biogenesis were predicted on the basis of similarity to proteins with confirmed functions and were organized so as to reconstruct the major pathways of glycerolipid synthesis in Chlamydomonas. This analysis accounts for the majority of genes predicted to encode enzymes involved in anabolic reactions of membrane lipid biosynthesis and compares and contrasts these pathways in Chlamydomonas and flowering plants. As an important result of the bioinformatics analysis, we identified and isolated the C. reinhardtii BTA1 (BTA1Cr)	2005	9	23	Eukaryot Cell	Eukaryotic cell	Algal Proteins; Amino Acid Sequence; Aminoacyltransferases; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Betaine; Chlamydomonas reinhardtii; Computational Biology; Membrane Lipids; Methyltransferases; Molecular Sequence Data; Plant Proteins; Plastids; Protozoan Proteins	Riekhof	Wayne R
15694350	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.11.004	Sequential assembly of photosynthetic units in Rhodobacter sphaeroides as revealed by fast repetition rate analysis of variable bacteriochlorophyll a fluorescence.	The development of functional photosynthetic units in Rhodobacter sphaeroides was followed by near infra-red fast repetition rate (IRFRR) fluorescence measurements that were correlated to absorption spectroscopy, electron microscopy and pigment analyses. To induce the formation of intracytoplasmic membranes (ICM) (greening), cells grown aerobically both in batch culture and in a carbon-limited chemostat were transferred to semiaerobic conditions. In both aerobic cultures, a low level of photosynthetic complexes was observed, which were composed of the reaction center and the LH1 core antenna. Interestingly, in the batch cultures the reaction centers were essentially inactive in forward electron transfer and exhibited low photochemical yields F(V)/F(M), whereas the chemostat culture displayed functional reaction centers with a rather rapid (1-2 ms) electron transfer turnover, as well as a high F(V)/F(M) of approximately 0.8. In both cases, the transfer to semiaerobiosis resulted in rapi	2005	4	11	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Fluorescence; Microscopy, Electron; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kobl..zek	Michal
15694348	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.11.002	Fast oxidation of the primary electron acceptor under anaerobic conditions requires the organization of the photosynthetic chain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in supercomplexes.	The kinetics of reoxidation of the primary acceptor Q(a) has been followed by measuring the changes in the fluorescence yield induced by a series of saturating flashes in intact cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in anaerobic conditions. At 0 degrees C, about half of Q(a)(-) is reoxidized in about 200 ms while reoxidation of the remaining fraction is completed in several seconds to minutes. The fast phase is associated with the transfer of ubiquinone formed at site Q(o) of the cytochrome bc(1) complex while the slowest phase is associated with the diffusion of ubiquinone present in the membrane prior to the flash excitation. The biphasic kinetics of Q(a)(-) oxidation is interpreted assuming that the electron chain is organized in supercomplexes that associate two RCs and one cyt bc(1) complex, which allows a fast transfer of quinone formed at the level of cyt bc(1) complex to the RCs. In agreement with this model, the fast phase of Q(a)(-) reoxidation is inhibited by myxothiazol, a speci	2005	4	11	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Anaerobiosis; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Joliot	Pierre
15687206	10.1128/JB.187.4.1415-1425.2005	L-malyl-coenzyme A/beta-methylmalyl-coenzyme A lyase is involved in acetate assimilation of the isocitrate lyase-negative bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus.	Cell extracts of Rhodobacter capsulatus grown on acetate contained an apparent malate synthase activity but lacked isocitrate lyase activity. Therefore, R. capsulatus cannot use the glyoxylate cycle for acetate assimilation, and a different pathway must exist. It is shown that the apparent malate synthase activity is due to the combination of a malyl-coenzyme A (CoA) lyase and a malyl-CoA-hydrolyzing enzyme. Malyl-CoA lyase activity was 20-fold up-regulated in acetate-grown cells versus glucose-grown cells. Malyl-CoA lyase was purified 250-fold with a recovery of 6%. The enzyme catalyzed not only the reversible condensation of glyoxylate and acetyl-CoA to L-malyl-CoA but also the reversible condensation of glyoxylate and propionyl-CoA to beta-methylmalyl-CoA. Enzyme activity was stimulated by divalent ions with preference for Mn(2+) and was inhibited by EDTA. The N-terminal amino acid sequence was determined, and a corresponding gene coding for a 34.2-kDa protein was identified and des	2005	3	10	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Acetic Acid; Acetyl Coenzyme A; Acyl Coenzyme A; Cations, Divalent; Coenzymes; DNA, Bacterial; Edetic Acid; Enzyme Inhibitors; Genes, Bacterial; Glyoxylates; Isocitrate Lyase; Methylobacterium extorquens; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Weight; Open Reading Frames; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Analysis, Protein; Sequence Homology; Streptomyces coelicolor; Substrate Specificity	Meister	Michael
15670851	10.1016/j.febslet.2005.01.003	Rhythmic gene expression in a purple photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Circadian rhythms are known to exist in all groups of eukaryotic organisms as well as oxygenic photosynthetic bacteria, cyanobacteria. However, little information is available regarding the existence of rhythmic behaviors in prokaryotes other than cyanobacteria. Here we report biological rhythms of gene expression in a purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by using a luciferase reporter gene system. Self-bioluminescent strains of Rb. sphaeroides were constructed, which produced a bacterial luciferase and its substrate, a long chain fatty aldehyde, to sustain the luminescence reaction. After being subjected to a temperature or light entrainment regime, the reporter strains with the luciferase genes driven by an upstream endogenous promoter expressed self-sustained rhythmicity in the constant free-running period. The rhythms were controlled by oxygen and exhibited a circadian period of 20.5 h under aerobic conditions and an ultradian period of 10.6-12.7 h under anaerobic conditions. T	2005	4	13	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Biological Evolution; Circadian Rhythm; DNA Transposable Elements; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Luminescent Measurements; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Min	Hongtao
15667262	10.1042/BST0330051	Interacting regulatory networks in the facultative photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Regulation of photosynthetic membrane synthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is dependent on the interactions of numerous regulatory elements, with two of the most important being the cbb(3) terminal oxidase and the PrrBAC two-component regulatory system. Here, we reveal that the cbb(3) terminal oxidase possesses extensive, additional regulatory activities under anaerobic conditions, and that the PrrBAC system is further involved in the regulation of the expression of more than 20% of the R. sphaeroides genome under anaerobic conditions, extending well beyond functions related to redox gene expression.	2005	7	5	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kaplan	S
15667227	10.1021/bi048701m	Specific triazine resistance in bacterial reaction centers induced by a single mutation in the QA protein pocket.	We report here the first example of a reaction center mutant from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, where a single mutation (M266His --&gt; Leu) taking place in the primary quinone protein pocket confers selective resistance to triazine-type inhibitors (terbutryn, ametryn, and atrazine), which bind in the secondary quinone protein pocket, at about 13 A from the mutation site. The M266His --&gt; Leu mutation involves one of the iron atom ligands. Interestingly, neither the secondary quinone nor the highly specific inhibitor stigmatellin binding affinities are affected by the mutation. It is noticeable that in the M266His --&gt; Ala mutant a nativelike behavior in observed. We suggest that the long side chain of Leu in position M266 may lack space to accommodate in the Q(A) pocket therefore transferring its hindrance to the Q(B) pocket. This may occur via the structural feature formed by the Q(A)-M219His-Fe-L190His-inhibitor (or Q(B)) connection, pushing L189Leu and/or L229Ile in closer contact t	2005	3	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Atrazine; Benzoquinones; Binding, Competitive; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Histidine; Leucine; Methionine; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Polyenes; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Triazines	Spitz	Jean-Alexis
15667215	10.1021/bi047876t	Light-induced structural changes of apoprotein and chromophore in the sensor of blue light using FAD (BLUF) domain of AppA for a signaling state.	AppA is a new class blue-light receptor controlling photosynthesis gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and retains a characteristic flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-binding domain named the "sensor of blue light using FAD" (BLUF). AppA functions as an antirepressor controlling transcription of photosynthesis genes through the direct association with a transcriptional repressor PpsR in a blue-light-dependent manner [Masuda and Bauer (2002) Cell 110, 613-623]. Illumination of AppA induces a red shift in the UV-visible absorption of FAD, which results in a signaling state of AppA. Light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectrum of the AppA BLUF domain showed relatively simple features, which were mainly composed of two sets of derivative-shaped sharp bands at 1709(-)/1695(+) and 1632(+)/1619(-) cm(-)(1). We have developed an in vitro reconstitution method, by which a fully functional BLUF domain was reconstituted from free FAD and an apopro	2005	3	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Apoproteins; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Isotopes; Cryptochromes; Darkness; Deuterium Exchange Measurement; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Light; Nitrogen Isotopes; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Masuda	Shinji
15666144	10.1007/s00253-005-1887-4	Hydrogen production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain O.U.001 using spent media of Enterobacter cloacae strain DM11.	Combined dark and photo-fermentation was carried out to study the feasibility of biological hydrogen production. In dark fermentation, hydrogen was produced by Enterobacter cloacae strain DM11 using glucose as substrate. This was followed by a photo-fermentation process. Here, the spent medium from the dark process (containing unconverted metabolites, mainly acetic acid etc.) underwent photo-fermentation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain O.U.001 in a column photo-bioreactor. This combination could achieve higher yields of hydrogen by complete utilization of the chemical energy stored in the substrate. Dark fermentation was studied in terms of several process parameters, such as initial substrate concentration, initial pH of the medium and temperature, to establish favorable conditions for maximum hydrogen production. Also, the effects of the threshold concentration of acetic acid, light intensity and the presence of additional nitrogen sources in the spent effluent on the amount of hyd	2006	1	25	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Bioreactors; Enterobacter cloacae; Fermentation; Glucose; Hydrogen; Industrial Microbiology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nath	Kaushik
15655068	10.1111/j.0022-2720.2005.01428.x	Combined AFM and confocal fluorescence microscope for applications in bio-nanotechnology.	We present a custom-designed atomic force fluorescence microscope (AFFM), which can perform simultaneous optical and topographic measurements with single molecule sensitivity throughout the whole visible to near-infrared spectral region. Integration of atomic force microscopy (AFM) and confocal fluorescence microscopy combines the high-resolution topographical imaging of AFM with the reliable (bio)-chemical identification capability of optical methods. The AFFM is equipped with a spectrograph enabling combined topographic and fluorescence spectral imaging, which significantly enhances discrimination of spectroscopically distinct objects. The modular design allows easy switching between different modes of operation such as tip-scanning, sample-scanning or mechanical manipulation, all of which are combined with synchronous optical detection. We demonstrate that coupling the AFM with the fluorescence microscope does not compromise its ability to image with a high spatial resolution. Examp	2005	3	4	J Microsc	Journal of microscopy	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Confocal; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Nanotechnology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kassies	R
15649898	10.1074/jbc.M412050200	Mechanistic studies of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Me2SO reductase.	Studies of the molybdenum-containing dimethyl sulfoxide reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have yielded new insight into its catalytic mechanism. A series of reductive titrations, performed over the pH range 6-10, reveal that the absorption spectrum of reduced enzyme is highly sensitive to pH. The reaction of reduced enzyme with dimethyl sulfoxide is found to be clearly biphasic throughout the pH range 6-8 with a fast, initial substrate-binding phase and substrate-concentration independent catalytic phase. The intermediate formed at the completion of the fast phase has the characteristic absorption spectrum of the established dimethyl sulfoxide-bound species. Quantitative reductive and oxidative titrations of the enzyme demonstrate that the molybdenum center takes up only two reducing equivalents, implying that the two pyranopterin equivalents of the molybdenum center are not formally redox active. Finally, the visible spectrum associated with the catalytically relevant "high-g spl	2005	4	21	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Methylamines; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cobb	Nathan
15647934	10.1007/s00253-004-1852-7	SspA, an outer membrane protein, is highly induced under salt-stressed conditions and is essential for growth under salt-stressed aerobic conditions in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	We have previously shown that an outer membrane protein, SspA, is prominently induced by salt stress in a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106 (R. sphaeroides). In this study, we investigated the physiological role of SspA under various stress conditions. Using recombinant SspA expressed in Escherichia coli as an antigen, the polyclonal antiserum of SspA was prepared. Western blot analysis demonstrated that SspA was highly induced by salt stress under both anaerobic and aerobic conditions. SspA was also induced, but to a lesser extent, by osmotic and acid stress. It is reduced under heat and cold compared to non-stressed conditions. While sspA-disrupted R. sphaeroides grew normally under anaerobic conditions in either the presence or absence of stress, it displayed significantly retarded growth under aerobic conditions in the dark, especially when osmotic or salt stress were imposed. In addition, the sspA disruptant, but not the wild type, formed	2005	10	20	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Acids; Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Deletion; Heat-Shock Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Osmotic Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Salts; Up-Regulation	Tsuzuki	M
15637063	10.1074/jbc.M413531200	Energetics of proton transfer pathways in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The Glu-H173 activated mutants.	Electron transfer between the primary and secondary quinones (Q(A), Q(B)) in the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (bRC) is coupled with proton uptake at Q(B). The protons are conducted from the cytoplasmic side, probably with the participation of two water channels. Mutations of titratable residues like Asp-L213 to Asn (inhibited mutant) or the double mutant Glu-L212 to Ala/Asp-L213 to Ala inhibit these electron transfer-coupled proton uptake events. The inhibition of the proton transfer (PT) process in the single mutant can be restored by a second mutation of Arg-M233 to Cys or Arg-H177 to His (revertant mutant). These revertant mutants shed light on the location of the main proton transfer pathway of wild type bRC. In contrast to the wild type and inhibited mutant bRC, the revertant mutant bRC showed notable proton uptake at Glu-H173 upon formation of the Q(B)- state. In all of these mutants, the pK(a) of Asp-M17 decreased by 1.4-2.4 units with respect to the wild type bRC, w	2005	5	13	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Alanine; Cysteine; Cytoplasm; Electron Transport; Electrons; Glutamic Acid; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Nitrogen; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software	Ishikita	Hiroshi
19785170	10.1039/b412180e	High-field EPR spectroscopy applied to biological systems: characterization of molecular switches for electron and ion transfer.	The last decade witnessed a tremendous growth in combined efforts of biologists, chemists and physicists to understand the dominant factors determining the specificity and directionality of transmembrane transfer processes in proteins. A large variety of experimental techniques is being used including X-ray and neutron diffraction, but also time-resolved optical, infrared and magnetic resonance spectroscopy. This is done in conjunction with genetic engineering strategies to construct site-specific mutants for controlled modification of the proteins. As a general perception of these efforts, the substantial influence of weak interactions within the protein and its membrane interfaces is recognized. The weak interactions are subject to subtle changes during the reaction cycle owing to the inherent flexibility of the protein-membrane complex. Specific conformational changes accomplish molecular-switch functions for the transfer process to proceed with optimum efficiency. Characteristic ex	2009	11	5	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Biology; Chemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Free Radicals; Ions; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Physics; Proteins; Retinaldehyde; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions	M..bius	K
15632164	10.1074/jbc.M412088200	Functional consequences of the organization of the photosynthetic apparatus in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. I. Quinone domains and excitation transfer in chromatophores and reaction center.antenna complexes.	The purpose of this study was to gain information on the functional consequences of the supramolecular organization of the photosynthetic apparatus in the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Isolated complexes of the reaction center (RC) with its core antenna ring (light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1)) were studied in their dimeric (native) form or as monomers with respect to excitation transfer and distribution of the quinone pool. Similar issues were examined in chromatophore membranes. The relationship between the fluorescence yield and the amount of closed centers is indicative of a very efficient excitation transfer between the two monomers in isolated dimeric complexes. A similar dependence was observed in chromatophores, suggesting that excitation transfer in vivo from a closed RC.LH1 unit is also essentially directed to its partner in the dimer. The isolated complexes were found to retain 25-30% of the endogenous quinone acceptor pool, and the distribution of this pool among the com	2005	4	21	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Chromatophores; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Comayras	Fr..d..ric
15632163	10.1074/jbc.M412089200	Functional consequences of the organization of the photosynthetic apparatus in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: II. A study of PufX- membranes.	In the bacterium R. sphaeroides, the polypeptide PufX is indispensable for photosynthetic growth. Its deletion is known to have important consequences on the organization of the photosynthetic apparatus. In the wild-type strain, complexes between the reaction center (RC) and the antenna (light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1)) are associated in dimers, and LH1 does not fully encircle the RC. In the absence of PufX, the complexes become monomeric, and the LH1 ring closes around the RC. We analyzed the functional consequences of PufX deletion. Some effects can be ascribed to the monomerization of the RC.LH1 complexes: the number of RCs that share a common antenna for excitation transfer or a common quinone pool become smaller. We examined the kinetic effects of the closed LH1 ring on quinone turnover: diffusion across LH1 entails a delay of approximately 1 ms, and the barrier appears to be located directly against the quinone-binding (secondary quinone acceptor (Q(B))) pocket. The diffusion of	2005	4	21	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Diffusion; Electron Transport Complex III; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Comayras	Fr..d..ric
15629659	10.1016/j.jsb.2004.09.001	Membrane insertion of Rhodopseudomonas acidophila light harvesting complex 2 investigated by high resolution AFM.	Light harvesting complexes 2 (LH2) are the peripheral antenna proteins in the bacterial photosynthetic apparatus and are built of alpha/beta-heterodimers containing three bacteriochlorophylls and two carotenoids each. Previously, we have found in 2D-crystals that the complexes could be inserted within the membrane with a tilt with respect to the membrane plane (Rhodobacter sphaeroides) or without tilt (Rubrivivax gelatinosus). To investigate whether the tilted insertion represents the native state or if it is due to specific 2D-crystal contacts, we have used atomic force microscopy to investigate LH2 from Rhodopseudomonas acidophila reconstituted at different lipid to protein ratios. High-resolution topographs could be acquired of two types of 2D-crystals or of densely packed membranes. Interestingly, in type 2 2D-crystals and in non-crystalline densely packed membranes, cylinders are integrated with their symmetry axis normal to the membrane plane, while in type 1 2D-crystals LH2 cyli	2005	7	11	J Struct Biol	Journal of structural biology	Cell Membrane; Crystallization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipids; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Rhodopseudomonas	Gon..alves	Rui Pedro
15628848	10.1021/bi048348k	Energetics of quinone-dependent electron and proton transfers in Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers.	Proteins bind redox cofactors, modifying their electrochemistry and affinity by specific interactions of the binding site with each cofactor redox state. Photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have three ubiquinone-binding sites, Q(A), and proximal and distal Q(B) sites. Ubiquinones, which can be doubly reduced and bind 2 protons, have 9 redox states. However, only Q and Q(-) are seen in the Q(A) site and Q, Q(-), and QH(2) in the proximal Q(B) site. The distal Q(B) function is uncertain. Multiple conformation continuum electrostatics (MCCE) was used to compare the ubiquinone electrochemical midpoints (E(m)) and pK(a) values at these three sites. At pH 7, the Q(A)/Q(A)(-) E(m) is -40 mV and proximal Q(B)/Q(B)(-) -10 mV in agreement with the experimental values (assuming a solution ubiquinone E(m) of -145 mV). Q(B) reduction requires changes in nearby residue protonation and SerL223 reorientation. The distal Q(B)/Q(B)(-) E(m) is a much more unfavorable -260 mV. Q(A	2005	3	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Detergents; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Peptide Fragments; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone	Zhu	Zhenyu
15620374	10.1016/j.bbabio.2004.10.004	A molecular dynamics study of water chain formation in the proton-conducting K channel of cytochrome c oxidase.	The formation of water chains in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) is studied by molecular dynamics (MD). Focus is on water chains in the K channel that can supply a proton to the binuclear center (the heme a3 Fe/CuB region), the site of O2 reduction. By assessing the presence of chains of any length on a short time scale (0.1 ps), a view of the kinds of chains and their persistence is obtained. Chains from the entry of the channel on the inner membrane to Thr359 (Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering) are often present but are blocked at that point until a rotation of the Thr359 side chain occurs, permitting formation of chains from Thr359 towards the binuclear center. No continuous hydrogen-bonded water chains are found connecting Thr359 and the binuclear center. Instead, waters hydrogen bond from Thr359 to the hydroxyl of the heme a3 farnesyl and then continue to the binuclear center via Tyr288, which has been identified as a source of a proton for O2 reduction. Three hydrogen-bonded waters ar	2005	3	29	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Algorithms; Amino Acids; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Molecular; Potassium Channels; Proton Pumps; Water	Cukier	R I
15601688	10.1128/JB.187.1.54-64.2005	Localization of MreB in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under conditions causing changes in cell shape and membrane structure.	MreB is thought to be a bacterial actin homolog that defines the morphology of rod-shaped bacteria. Rhodobacter sphaeroides changes shape, from a rod to coccobacillus, and undergoes extensive cytoplasmic membrane invagination when it switches from aerobic to photoheterotrophic growth. The role of MreB in defining R. sphaeroides shape was therefore investigated. Attempts at deleting or insertionally inactivating mreB were unsuccessful under all growth conditions. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed MreB localized to mid-cell in elongating cells under both aerobic and photoheterotrophic conditions. Three-dimensional reconstruction showed that MreB formed a ring at mid-cell. MreB remained at mid-cell as septation began but localized to new sites in the daughter cells before the completion of septation. MreB localized to putative septation sites in cephalexin-treated filamentous cells. Genomic single-copy mreB was replaced with gfp-mreB, and green fluorescent protein (GFP)-MreB localized 	2005	1	12	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amdinocillin; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Chromosome Mapping; Cytoplasm; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Slovak	Peter M
17205800		[An efficient mutational method for photosynthetic bacteria].	The pigment and auxotrophic mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Y6 were obtained by treatment with ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) followed by lithium chloride (LiCI). Treatment with 0.081 M EPS and subsequent treatment with 0.071 M LiCI resulted in 12% higher frequency of pigment mutations than application of 0.081 M EMS alone; the frequency of auxotrophic mutations increased 2.5-fold when treatment with lithium chloride was applied. A blue shift 10 nm was recorded in the absorption spectrum of carotenoids form YM5-3 green mutant; considerable accumulation of neurosporine was revealed by HPLC and mass spectrometry. The method is efficient for isolating mutants of photosynthetic bacteria.	2007	2	2	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Ethyl Methanesulfonate; Lithium Chloride; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lin	J Q
17185228	10.1016/j.chembiol.2006.11.011	Structural determinants and modulation of substrate specificity in phenylalanine-tyrosine ammonia-lyases.	Aromatic amino acid ammonia-lyases catalyze the deamination of L-His, L-Phe, and L-Tyr, yielding ammonia plus aryl acids bearing an alpha,beta-unsaturated propenoic acid. We report crystallographic analyses of unliganded Rhodobacter sphaeroides tyrosine ammonia-lyase (RsTAL) and RsTAL bound to p-coumarate and caffeate. His 89 of RsTAL forms a hydrogen bond with the p-hydroxyl moieties of coumarate and caffeate. His 89 is conserved in TALs but replaced in phenylalanine ammonia-lyases (PALs) and histidine ammonia-lyases (HALs). Substitution of His 89 by Phe, a characteristic residue of PALs, yields a mutant with a switch in kinetic preference from L-Tyr to L-Phe. Structures of the H89F mutant in complex with the PAL product, cinnamate, or the PAL-specific inhibitor, 2-aminoindan-2-phosphonate (AIP), support the role of position 89 as a specificity determinant in the family of aromatic amino acid ammonia-lyases and aminomutases responsible for beta-amino acid biosynthesis.	2007	7	27	Chem Biol	Chemistry &amp; biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Ammonia-Lyases; Binding Sites; Caffeic Acids; Coumaric Acids; Crystallography, X-Ray; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Phenylalanine; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Substrate Specificity	Louie	Gordon V
17172323	10.1128/JB.01498-06	Genome analyses of three strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: evidence of rapid evolution of chromosome II.	Three strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides of diverse origin have been under investigation in our laboratory for their genome complexities, including the presence of multiple chromosomes and the distribution of essential genes within their genomes. The genome of R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 has been completely sequenced and fully annotated, and now two additional strains (ATCC 17019 and ATCC 17025) of R. sphaeroides have been sequenced. Thus, genome comparisons have become a useful approach in determining the evolutionary relationships among different strains of R. sphaeroides. In this study, the concatenated chromosomal sequences from the three strains of R. sphaeroides were aligned, using Mauve, to examine the extent of shared DNA regions and the degree of relatedness among their chromosome-specific DNA sequences. In addition, the exact intra- and interchromosomal DNA duplications were analyzed using Mummer. Genome analyses employing these two independent approaches revealed that strain ATCC 1	2007	3	28	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Chromosomes, Bacterial; Conserved Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Duplication; Gene Rearrangement; Genome, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Choudhary	M
17169326	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.10.008	Energy and electron transfer in the photosynthetic reaction center complex of Acidiphilium rubrum containing Zn-bacteriochlorophyll a studied by femtosecond up-conversion spectroscopy.	A photosynthetic reaction center (RC) complex was isolated from a purple bacterium, Acidiphilium rubrum. The RC contains bacteriochlorophyll a containing Zn as a central metal (Zn-BChl a) and bacteriopheophytin a (BPhe a) but no Mg-BChl a. The absorption peaks of the Zn-BChl a dimer (P(Zn)), the accessory Zn-BChl a (B(Zn)), and BPhe a (H) at 4 K in the RC showed peaks at 875, 792, and 753 nm, respectively. These peaks were shorter than the corresponding peaks in Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC that has Mg-BChl a. The kinetics of fluorescence from P(Zn)(*), measured by fluorescence up-conversion, showed the rise and the major decay with time constants of 0.16 and 3.3 ps, respectively. The former represents the energy transfer from B(Zn)(*) to P(Zn), and the latter, the electron transfer from P(Zn) to H. The angle between the transition dipoles of B(Zn) and P(Zn) was estimated to be 36 degrees based on the fluorescence anisotropy. The time constants and the angle are almost equal to those in 	2007	3	1	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Acidiphilium; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Electron Transport; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature; Zinc	Tomi	Tetsuo
17161397	10.1016/j.febslet.2006.11.065	The solution structure of the PufX polypeptide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	PufX organizes the photosynthetic reaction centre-light harvesting complex 1 (RC-LH1) core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and facilitates quinol/quinone exchange between the RC and cytochrome bc(1) complexes. The structure of PufX in organic solvent reveals two hydrophobic helices flanked by unstructured termini and connected by a helical bend. The proposed location of basic residues and tryptophans at the membrane interface orients the C-terminal helix along the membrane normal, with the GXXXG motifs in positions unsuitable as direct drivers of dimerisation of the RC-LH1 complex. The N-terminal helix is predicted to extend approximately 40 Anggstrom along the membrane interface.	2007	1	30	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Peptides; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Titrimetry	Tunnicliffe	Richard B
17154527	10.1021/bi061390q	Altering conserved lipid binding sites in cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides perturbs the interaction between subunits I and III and promotes suicide inactivation of the enzyme.	Subunit III of the three-subunit catalytic core of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) contains no metal centers, but it does bind two lipids, within a deep cleft, in binding sites conserved from bacteria to humans. Subunit III binds to subunit I, where it prevents the spontaneous suicide inactivation of CcO by decreasing the probability of side reactions at the heme-Cu O2 reduction site in subunit I. Subunit III prevents suicide inactivation by (1) maintaining adequate rates of proton delivery to the heme-Cu active site and (2) stabilizing the structure of the active site during turnover [Mills and Hosler (2005) Biochemistry 44, 4656]. Here, we first show that mutating several individual residues of the conserved lipid binding sites in subunit III disturbs the subunit I-III interface. Then, two lipid binding site mutants were constructed with an affinity tag on subunit III such that the mutant CcOs could be isolated with 100% subunit III. R226A eliminates an ion pair to the phosphate of the ou	2007	2	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Catalysis; Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Activation; Lipids; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Varanasi	Lakshman
17149487	10.1039/b612568a	Protein-cofactor interactions in bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26: effect of hydrogen bonding on the electronic and geometric structure of the primary quinone. A density functional theory study.	The effect of hydrogen bonding to the primary quinone (Q(A) and Q(*)(-)(A)) in bacterial reaction centers was studied using density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The charge neutral state Q(A) was investigated by optimizing the hydrogen atom positions of model systems extracted from 15 different X-ray structures. From this analysis, mean values of the H-bond lengths and directions were derived. It was found that the N(delta)-H of His M219 forms a shorter H-bond to Q(A) than the N-H of Ala M260. The H-bond of His M219 is linear and more twisted out of the quinone plane. The radical anion Q(*)(-)(A) in the protein environment was investigated by using a mixed quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) approach. Two geometry optimizations with a different number of flexible atoms were performed. H-bond lengths were obtained and spectroscopic parameters calculated, i.e. the hyperfine and nuclear quadrupole couplings of magnetic nuclei coupled to the radical. Good agreement was fo	2007	3	13	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Amino Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Computer Simulation; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electrons; Free Radicals; Hydrogen Bonding; Magnetics; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sinnecker	Sebastian
17148448	10.1074/jbc.M605746200	pH dependence of copper geometry, reduction potential, and nitrite affinity in nitrite reductase.	Many properties of copper-containing nitrite reductase are pH-dependent, such as gene expression, enzyme activity, and substrate affinity. Here we use x-ray diffraction to investigate the structural basis for the pH dependence of activity and nitrite affinity by examining the type 2 copper site and its immediate surroundings in nitrite reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3. At active pH the geometry of the substrate-free oxidized type 2 copper site shows a near perfect tetrahedral geometry as defined by the positions of its ligands. At higher pH values the most favorable copper site geometry is altered toward a more distorted tetrahedral geometry whereby the solvent ligand adopts a position opposite to that of the His-131 ligand. This pH-dependent variation in type 2 copper site geometry is discussed in light of recent computational results. When co-crystallized with substrate, nitrite is seen to bind in a bidentate fashion with its two oxygen atoms ligating the type 2 copper, o	2007	6	18	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Binding Sites; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Substrate Specificity	Jacobson	Frida
17130127	10.1074/jbc.M607353200	Spectropotentiometric and structural analysis of the periplasmic nitrate reductase from Escherichia coli.	The Escherichia coli NapA (periplasmic nitrate reductase) contains a [4Fe-4S] cluster and a Mo-bis-molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide cofactor. The NapA holoenzyme associates with a di-heme c-type cytochrome redox partner (NapB). These proteins have been purified and studied by spectropotentiometry, and the structure of NapA has been determined. In contrast to the well characterized heterodimeric NapAB systems ofalpha-proteobacteria, such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus pantotrophus, the gamma-proteobacterial E. coli NapA and NapB proteins purify independently and not as a tight heterodimeric complex. This relatively weak interaction is reflected in dissociation constants of 15 and 32 mum determined for oxidized and reduced NapAB complexes, respectively. The surface electrostatic potential of E. coli NapA in the apparent NapB binding region is markedly less polar and anionic than that of the alpha-proteobacterial NapA, which may underlie the weaker binding of NapB. The molybd	2007	6	18	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Crystallography, X-Ray; Electrochemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Escherichia coli Proteins; Molybdenum; Nitrate Reductase; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Static Electricity	Jepson	Brian J N
17128964	10.1021/bi061345i	Resilience of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc1 to heme c1 ligation changes.	Typically, c hemes are bound to the protein through two thioether bonds to cysteines and two axial ligands to the heme iron. In high-potential class I c-type cytochromes, these axial ligands are commonly His-Met. A change in this methionine axial ligand is often correlated with a dramatic drop in the heme redox potential and loss of function. Here we describe a bacterial cytochrome c with an unusual tolerance to the alternations in the heme ligation pattern. Substitution of the heme ligating methionine (M185) in cytochrome c1 of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc1 complex with Lys and Leu lowers the redox midpoint potential but not enough to prevent physiologically competent electron transfer in these fully functional variants. Only when Met-185 is replaced with His is the drop in the redox potential sufficiently large to cause cytochrome bc1 electron transfer chain failure. Functional mutants preserve the structural integrity of the heme crevice: only the nonfunctional His vari	2007	1	18	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport Complex III; Kinetics; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Zhang	Haibo
17125392	10.1021/jp064568r	Carotenoid radical cation formation in LH2 of purple bacteria: a quantum chemical study.	In LH2 complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides the formation of a carotenoid radical cation has recently been observed upon photoexcitation of the carotenoid S2 state. To shed more light onto the yet unknown molecular mechanism leading to carotenoid radical formation in LH2, the interactions between carotenoid and bacteriochlorophyll in LH2 are investigated by means of quantum chemical calculations for three different carotenoids--neurosporene, spheroidene, and spheroidenone--using time-dependent density functional theory. Crossings of the calculated potential energy curve of the electron transfer state with the bacteriochlorophyll Qx state and the carotenoid S1 and S2 states occur along an intermolecular distance coordinate for neurosporene and spheroidene, but for spheroidenone no crossing of the electron transfer state with the carotenoid S1 state could be found. By comparison with recent experiments where no formation of a spheroidenone radical cation has been observed, a molecular me	2007	1	16	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Algorithms; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cations; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Free Radicals; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Conformation; Proteobacteria; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Wormit	Michael
17115701	10.1021/bi061465q	Replacing Asn207 by aspartate at the neck of the D channel in the aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides results in decoupling the proton pump.	Cytochrome oxidase catalyzes the reduction of O2 to water and conserves the considerable free energy available from this reaction in the form of a proton motive force. For each electron, one proton is electrogenically pumped across the membrane. Of particular interest is the mechanism by which the proton pump operates. Previous studies of the oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have shown that all of the pumped protons enter the enzyme through the D channel and that a point mutant, N139D, in the D channel completely eliminates proton pumping without reducing oxidase activity. N139 is one of three asparagines near the entrance of the D channel, where there is a narrowing or neck, through which a single file of water molecules pass. In the current work, it is shown that replacement of a second asparagine in this region by an asparate, N207D, also decouples the proton pump without altering the oxidase activity of the enzyme. Previous studies demonstrated that the N139D mutant results in 	2006	12	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Asparagine; Aspartic Acid; Electron Transport Complex IV; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Mutation; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Han	Dan
17115698	10.1021/bi060854h	Trapped conformational states of semiquinone (D+*QB-*) formed by B-branch electron transfer at low temperature in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	The reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides captures light energy by electron transfer between quinones QA and QB, involving a conformational gating step. In this work, conformational states of D+*QB-* were trapped (80 K) and studied using EPR spectroscopy in native and mutant RCs that lack QA in which QB was reduced by the bacteriopheophytin along the B-branch. In mutant RCs frozen in the dark, a light induced EPR signal due to D+*QB-* formed in 30% of the sample with low quantum yield (0.2%-20%) and decayed in 6 s. A small signal with similar characteristics was also observed in native RCs. In contrast, the EPR signal due to D+*QB-* in mutant RCs illuminated while freezing formed in approximately 95% of the sample did not decay (tau &gt;107 s) at 80 K (also observed in the native RC). In all samples, the observed g-values were the same (g = 2.0026), indicating that all active QB-*'s were located in a proximal conformation coupled with the nonheme Fe2+. We propose that befor	2006	12	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cold Temperature; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paddock	M L
17105193	10.1021/bi060742q	Proton uptake in the reaction center mutant L210DN from Rhodobacter sphaeroides via protonated water molecules.	The reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses light energy to reduce and protonate a quinone molecule, QB (the secondary quinone electron acceptor), to form quinol, QBH2. Asp210 in the L-subunit has been shown to be a catalytic residue in this process. Mutation of Asp210 to Asn leads to a deceleration of reoxidation of QA- in the QA-QB --&gt; QAQB- transition. Here we determined the structure of the Asp210 to Asn mutant to 2.5 A and show that there are no major structural differences as compared to the wild-type protein. We found QB in the distal position and a chain of water molecules between Asn210 and QB. Using time-resolved Fourier transform infrared (trFTIR) spectroscopy, we characterized the molecular reaction mechanism of this mutant. We found that QB- formation precedes QA- oxidation even more pronounced than in the wild-type reaction center. Continuum absorbance changes indicate deprotonation of a protonated water cluster, most likely of the water chain between Asn2	2007	1	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electrons; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Water	Hermes	Sabine
17074891	10.1099/mic.0.29195-0	Genome-enabled analysis of the utilization of taurine as sole source of carbon or of nitrogen by Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	A degradative pathway for taurine (2-aminoethanesulfonate) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 was proposed by Br..ggemann et al. (2004) (Microbiology 150, 805-816) on the basis of a partial genome sequence. In the present study, R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 was found to grow exponentially with taurine as the sole source of carbon and energy for growth. When taurine was the sole source of nitrogen in succinate-salts medium, the taurine was rapidly degraded, and most of the organic nitrogen was excreted as the ammonium ion, which was then utilized for growth. Most of the enzymes involved in dissimilation, taurine dehydrogenase (TDH), sulfoacetaldehyde acetyltransferase (Xsc) and phosphate acetyltransferase (Pta), were found to be inducible, and evidence for transcription of the corresponding genes (tauXY, xsc and pta), as well as of tauKLM, encoding the postulated TRAP transporter for taurine, and of tauZ, encoding the sulfate exporter, was obtained by reverse-transcription PCR. An additional bran	2007	1	9	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters; Acetaldehyde; Acetyltransferases; Alanine Dehydrogenase; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon; Culture Media; Genes, Bacterial; Malate Synthase; Multigene Family; Nitrogen; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Phosphates; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Pyruvic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic Acid; Taurine; Transcription, Genetic	Denger	Karin
17071655	10.1529/biophysj.106.092460	Protein-cofactor interactions in bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26: II. Geometry of the hydrogen bonds to the primary quinone formula by 1H and 2H ENDOR spectroscopy.	The geometry of the hydrogen bonds to the two carbonyl oxygens of the semiquinone Q(A)(. -) in the reaction center (RC) from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 were determined by fitting a spin Hamiltonian to the data derived from (1)H and (2)H ENDOR spectroscopies at 35 GHz and 80 K. The experiments were performed on RCs in which the native Fe(2+) (high spin) was replaced by diamagnetic Zn(2+) to prevent spectral line broadening of the Q(A)(. -) due to magnetic coupling with the iron. The principal components of the hyperfine coupling and nuclear quadrupolar coupling tensors of the hydrogen-bonded protons (deuterons) and their principal directions with respect to the quinone axes were obtained by spectral simulations of ENDOR spectra at different magnetic fields on frozen solutions of deuterated Q(A)(. -) in H(2)O buffer and protonated Q(A)(. -) in D(2)O buffer. Hydrogen-bond lengths were obtained from the nuclear quadrupolar couplings. The two hydrogen b	2007	2	28	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Computer Simulation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen Bonding; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Flores	M
17064097	10.1021/jp060828t	Stabilization effect of single-walled carbon nanotubes on the functioning of photosynthetic reaction centers.	The interaction between single-walled carbon nanotubes and photosynthetic reaction centers purified from purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 has been investigated. Atomic force microscopy studies provide evidence that reaction center protein can be attached effectively to the nanotubes. The typical diameter of the nanotube is 1-4 nm and 15 +/- 2 nm without and with the reaction centers, respectively. Light-induced absorption change measurements indicate the stabilization of the P+(Q(A)Q(B))- charge pair, which is formed after single saturating light excitation after the attachment to nanotubes. The separation of light-induced charges is followed by slow reorganization of the protein structure. The stabilization effect of light-initiated charges by the carbon nanotubes opens a possible direction of several applications, the most promising being in energy conversion and storage devices.	2007	2	7	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electrochemistry; Kinetics; Nanotubes, Carbon; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dorogi	Marta
17060620	10.1073/pnas.0606254103	Identification of a histidine-tyrosine cross-link in the active site of the cbb3-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The heme-copper oxidases constitute a superfamily of terminal dioxygen-reducing enzymes located in the inner mitochondrial or in the bacterial cell membrane. The presence of a mechanistically important covalent bond between a histidine ligand of the copper ion (Cu(B)) in the active site and a generally conserved tyrosine residue nearby has been shown to exist in the canonical cytochrome c oxidases. However, according to sequence alignment studies, this critical tyrosine is missing from the subfamily of cbb(3)-type oxidases found in certain bacteria. Recently, homology modeling has suggested that a tyrosine residue located in a different helix might fulfill this role in these enzymes. Here, we show directly by methods of protein chemistry and mass spectrometry that there is indeed a covalent link between this tyrosine and the copper-ligating histidine. The identity of the cross-linked tyrosine was determined by showing that the cross-link is not formed when this residue is replaced by p	2006	12	22	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex IV; Histidine; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Tyrosine	Rauham..ki	Virve
17050688	10.1073/pnas.0606149103	Identification of conserved lipid/detergent-binding sites in a high-resolution structure of the membrane protein cytochrome c oxidase.	Well ordered reproducible crystals of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides yield a previously unreported structure at 2.0 A resolution that contains the two catalytic subunits and a number of alkyl chains of lipids and detergents. Comparison with crystal structures of other bacterial and mammalian CcOs reveals that the positions occupied by native membrane lipids and detergent substitutes are highly conserved, along with amino acid residues in their vicinity, suggesting a more prevalent and specific role of lipid in membrane protein structure than often envisioned. Well defined detergent head groups (maltose) are found associated with aromatic residues in a manner similar to phospholipid head groups, likely contributing to the success of alkyl glycoside detergents in supporting membrane protein activity and crystallizability. Other significant features of this structure include the following: finding of a previously unreported crystal contact mediated by cadmium and 	2006	12	22	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Binding Sites; Cadmium; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Detergents; Electron Transport Complex IV; Electrons; Histidine; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Models, Molecular; Protein Engineering; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine; Water	Qin	Ling
17028136	10.1529/biophysj.106.084715	Possible pathway for ubiquinone shuttling in Rhodospirillum rubrum revealed by molecular dynamics simulation.	In the last decade, the structures of many components of the photosynthetic apparatus of purple bacteria, as well as the mutual organization of these components within the purple membrane, were resolved. One key question that emerged concerned the assembly of the core complex consisting of the reaction center (RC) and the light-harvesting 1 (LH1) complex. In some species, like Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the ring-shaped LH1 complex was found to be open, whereas other species, like Rhodospirillum rubrum, have a closed ring surrounding the reaction center. This poses the question of how the ubiquinone molecule that transports electrons and protons from the RC to the cytochrome bc(1) complex overcomes the apparent barrier of the LH1 ring. In this study, we investigated how, in the case of a closed LH1 ring, the ubiquinone molecule diffuses through the LH1 ring. For this purpose, the LH1 structure of R. rubrum was modeled and the potential of mean force along the diffusion pathway through the	2007	4	23	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Biological Transport; Computer Simulation; Electrons; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipid Bilayers; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Models, Statistical; Molecular Conformation; Phosphatidylcholines; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Ubiquinone	Aird	A
17027875	10.1263/jbb.102.128	Selection of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 14F for polyhydroxyalkanoate production with two-stage aerobic dark cultivation.	Polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) production abilities in a two-stage aerobic dark culture of photosynthetic bacteria were investigated at relatively high temperatures (37-40 degrees C). A 14F strain, identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides, showed the highest PHA production (3.5 g/l PHA with 60% PHA content). Its productivity was 2-3 times higher than those of other photosynthetic bacteria.	2007	1	9	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	Acyltransferases; Alcaligenes; Alkanes; Bacteria; Biotechnology; Cell Culture Techniques; Darkness; Fructose; Light; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Time Factors	Lorrungruang	Chortip
17017790	10.1021/ja056166n	EPR-ENDOR of the Cu(I)NO complex of nitrite reductase.	With limited reductant and nitrite under anaerobic conditions, copper-containing nitrite reductase (NiR) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides yielded endogenous NO and the Cu(I)NO derivative of NiR. (14)N- and (15)N-nitrite substrates gave rise to characteristic (14)NO and (15)NO EPR hyperfine features indicating NO involvement, and enrichment of NiR with (63)Cu isotope caused an EPR line shape change showing copper involvement. A markedly similar Cu(I)NONiR complex was made by anaerobically adding a little endogenous NO gas to reduced protein and immediately freezing. The Cu(I)NONiR signal accounted for 60-90% of the integrated EPR intensity formerly associated with the Type 2 catalytic copper. Analysis of NO and Cu hyperfine couplings and comparison to couplings of inorganic Cu(I)NO model systems indicated approximately 50% spin on the N of NO and approximately 17% spin on Cu. ENDOR revealed weak nitrogen hyperfine coupling to one or more likely histidine ligands of copper. Although previous c	2007	8	7	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Histidine; Models, Molecular; Nitric Oxide; Nitrite Reductases	Usov	Oleg M
17017764	10.1021/ja0622094	Using unnatural protein fusions to engineer resveratrol biosynthesis in yeast and Mammalian cells.	Resveratrol is a naturally occurring defense compound produced by a limited number of plants in response to stresses. Besides cardiovascular benefits, this health-promoting compound has been reported to extend life spans in yeasts, flies, worms, and fish. To biosynthesize resveratrol de novo, tyrosine ammonia lyase (TAL), 4-coumarate CoA-ligase (4CL), and stilbene synthase (STS) were isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Vitis vinifera, respectively. Yeast cells expressing 4CL and STS produce resveratrol when fed with 4-coumaric acid, the substrate of 4CL. When a translational fusion protein joining 4CL and STS was used, yeast cells produced 15-fold more resveratrol than the cotransformed cells, suggesting that physical localization of 4CL and STS facilitate resveratrol production. When the resveratrol pathway was introduced into human HEK293 cells, de novo biosynthesis was detected, leading to intracellular accumulation of resveratrol. We successfully engine	2007	8	7	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Acyltransferases; Ammonia-Lyases; Arabidopsis Proteins; Cell Line; Cloning, Molecular; Coenzyme A Ligases; Humans; Kidney; Protein Engineering; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Resveratrol; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Stilbenes	Zhang	Yansheng
17005199	10.1016/j.jmb.2006.06.043	Lipidic sponge phase crystallization of membrane proteins.	Bicontinuous lipidic cubic phases can be used as a host for growing crystals of membrane proteins. Since the cubic phase is stiff, handling is difficult and time-consuming. Moreover, the conventional cubic phase may interfere with the hydrophilic domains of membrane proteins due to the limited size of the aqueous pores. Here, we introduce a new crystallization method that makes use of a liquid analogue of the cubic phase, the sponge phase. This phase facilitates a considerable increase in the allowed size of aqueous domains of membrane proteins, and is easily generalised to a conventional vapour diffusion crystallisation experiment, including the use of nanoliter drop crystallization robots. The appearance of the sponge phase was confirmed by visual inspection, small-angle X-ray scattering and NMR spectroscopy. Crystals of the reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were obtained by a conventional hanging-drop experiment, were harvested directly without the addition of lipase or c	2006	12	18	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Binding Sites; Crystallization; Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Structure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Diffraction	Wadsten	Pia
17002374	10.1021/ja0623616	Photo-CIDNP MAS NMR in intact cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26: molecular and atomic resolution at nanomolar concentration.	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) is observed in photosynthetic reaction centers of the carotenoid-less strain R26 of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by (13)C solid-state NMR at three different magnetic fields (4.7, 9.4, and 17.6 T). The signals of the donor appear enhanced absorptive (positive) and of the acceptor emissive (negative). This spectral feature is in contrast to photo-CIDNP data of reactions centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wildtype reported previously (Prakash, S.; Alia; Gast, P.; de Groot, H. J. M.; Jeschke, G.; Matysik, J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 14290-14298) in which all signals appear emissive. The difference is due to an additional mechanism occurring in RCs of R26 in the long-living triplet state of the donor, allowing for spectral editing by different enhancement mechanisms. The overall shape of the spectra remains independent of the magnetic field. The strongest enhancement is observed at 4.7 T, enabling the obs	2007	8	7	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity	Prakash	Shipra
16982060	10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2006.08.032	Toll-like receptor 4 signalling is neither sufficient nor required for oxidised phospholipid mediated induction of interleukin-8 expression.	Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 signalling has been shown to accelerate atherosclerosis. As oxidised phospholipids are present in atherosclerotic plaque and have been shown to modulate TLR4 signalling, we investigated the role of oxidised 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (OxPAPC) in the regulation of TLR 1, 2, 4 and 6 signalling. Unlike established TLR agonists, OxPAPC did not induce NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression in monocytic THP-1 cells, human aortic endothelial cells or TLR-deficient HEK-293 cells transfected with TLRs 1, 2, 4 or 6. OxPAPC induction of IL-8 was not blocked by the TLR4 specific antagonist Rhodobacter sphaeroides LPS in human aortic endothelial cells, though OxPAPC potently inhibited TLR4 mediated IL-8 induction in these cells. OxPAPC upregulated IL-8 production in TLR4 deficient HEK-293 cells and this was not increased following TLR4 overexpression. Lipids extracted from carotid atherectomy samples did not stimulate TLR 1, 2, 4 or 6 signalling	2007	8	6	Atherosclerosis	Atherosclerosis	Atherosclerosis; Base Sequence; Cell Line; Cells, Cultured; DNA Primers; Endothelial Cells; Gene Expression; Humans; Interleukin-8; Lipids; NF-kappa B; Phosphatidylcholines; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Recombinant Proteins; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Transfection	Erridge	Clett
16981690	10.1021/bi060421e	Channeling in sulfate activating complexes.	The synthesis of activated sulfate (adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate, APS) and inorganic pyrophosphate from ATP and SO4 is remarkably unfavorable: K(eq) approximately 10(-8) under presumed, near-physiological conditions. Consequently, ATP sulfurylases, which catalyze APS synthesis, suffer approximately 10(8)-fold losses in catalytic efficiency in the forward (APS-synthesis) versus reverse reaction. Losses of this magnitude place this catalyst at risk of being unable to supply its nutrients to the cell in a timely fashion. ATP sulfurylase domains are often embedded in multifunctional complexes that are capable of also catalyzing the second of two steps in the sulfate activation pathway: the phosphorylation of APS to produce PAPS (3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate). The colocalization of these activities in a single scaffold suggests that evolution might have worked around the inefficiency problem by fashioning a system capable of transferring APS directly between the active sites of the 	2006	11	8	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Adenosine Phosphosulfate; Animals; Humans; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mycobacterium tuberculosis; Oxidoreductases Acting on Sulfur Group Donors; Phosphoadenosine Phosphosulfate; Rabbits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Sulfates	Sun	Meihao
16970500	10.1021/jp0623894	Charge delocalization in the special-pair radical cation of mutant reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides from Stark spectra and nonadiabatic spectral simulations.	Stark and absorption spectra for the hole-transfer band of the bacteriochlorophyll special pair in the wild-type and L131LH, M160LH, and L131LH/M160LH mutants of the bacterial reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are presented, along with extensive analyses based on nonadiabatic spectral simulations. Dramatic changes in the Stark spectra are induced by the mutations, changes that are readily interpreted in terms of the redox-energy asymmetry and degree of charge localization in the special-pair radical cation. The effect of mutagenesis on key properties such as the electronic coupling within the special pair and the reorganization energy associated with intervalence hole transfer are determined for the first time. Results for the L131LH and M160LH/L131LH mutants indicate that these species can be considered as influencing the special pair primarily through modulation of the redox asymmetry, as is usually conceptualized, but M160LH is shown to develop a wide range of effects that 	2007	8	17	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Absorption; Cations; Computer Simulation; Dimerization; Electrochemistry; Electronics; Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Thermodynamics	Kanchanawong	Pakorn
16968704	10.1074/jbc.M604819200	An unorthodox bacteriophytochrome from Rhodobacter sphaeroides involved in turnover of the second messenger c-di-GMP.	Bacteriophytochromes are bacterial photoreceptors that sense red/far red light using the biliverdin chromophore. Most bacteriophytochromes work as photoactivated protein kinases. The Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteriophytochrome BphG1 is unconventional in that it has GGDEF and EAL output domains, which are involved, respectively, in synthesis (diguanylate cyclase) and degradation (phosphodiesterase) of the bacterial second messenger c-di-GMP. The GGDEF-EAL proteins studied to date displayed either diguanylate cyclase or phosphodiesterase activity but not both. To elucidate the function of BphG1, the holoprotein was purified from an Escherichia coli overexpression system designed to produce biliverdin. The holoprotein contained covalently bound biliverdin and interconverted between the red (dark) and far red (light-activated) forms. BphG1 had c-di-GMP-specific phosphodiesterase activity. Unexpectedly for a photochromic protein, this activity was essentially light-independent. BphG1 expres	2007	1	18	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Cyclic GMP; Phytochrome; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Second Messenger Systems	Tarutina	Marina
16968289	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2006.02971.x	Optimization of activation conditions of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in hydrogen generation process.	To examine the effects of the culture age, illuminance intensity and changes in these parameters during activation on hydrogen generation process carried out by purple nonsulfur Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteria. The following parameters were determined in all experiments: the amount of hydrogen evolved (measured using gas chromatography), biomass increase as dry mass, pH values and consumption of organic substance as chemical oxygen demand (COD). The medium used in the process of activation and hydrogen generation contained malic acid (15 mmol) and sodium glutamate (2 mmol). The optimum age of bacteria was 12-24 h and the best intensity of illuminance was found to be 5 cd sr m-2 on activation and 9 cd sr m-2 on hydrogen generation. These conditions provided hydrogen evolution of 1.39 l l-1 of the medium with the highest specific hydrogen production of 0.146 l H2 l-1 medium h-1 g-1 inoculum. An increase in the illuminance intensity resulted in a slight inhibition of the process. The act	2007	5	21	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Biomass; Bioreactors; Hydrogen; Industrial Microbiology; Malates; Oxygen; Photic Stimulation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Glutamate; Time	Walig..rska	M
16965358	10.1111/j.1574-695X.2006.00131.x	Immunobiological activities of a new nontoxic lipopolysaccharide from Acidiphilium GS18h/ATCC55963, a soil isolate from an Indian copper mine.	A novel nontoxic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was purified from Acidiphilium strain GS18h/ATCC55963. The chemical composition of the lipid A part of this LPS is distinctly different from that of known lipid A molecules. The LPS was investigated to determine its capacity to provide protection against toxic LPS or endotoxic shock, as has been reported for other nontoxic LPSs (Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter capsulatus), and also the extent and type of immunomodulatory response in terms of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-beta), and IL-6 release as well as NO secretion by stimulated monocyte-macrophage systems. This study demonstrates clearly that mice immunized or primed with this LPS are fully protected against challenge with toxic Escherichia coli LPS. Unlike most of the extensively studied nontoxic LPSs, this LPS induced reactive nitrogen intermediates and released TNF-alpha, IL-beta and IL-6 in both mouse and human monocyte-macrophage systems. Howeve	2006	11	28	FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol	FEMS immunology and medical microbiology	Acidiphilium; Animals; Copper; Escherichia coli; Immune Tolerance; Interleukins; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Mining; Shock, Septic; Soil Microbiology; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Bera	Rabindranath
16964973	10.1021/bi061099a	The role of an extra fragment of cytochrome b (residues 309-326) in the cytochrome bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In bacterial cytochrome b of the cytochrome bc(1) complex, there is an extra fragment located between the amphipathic helix ef and the transmembrane helix F compared to the mitochondrial counterparts. In this work, mutants at various positions of this extra fragment were generated in Rhodobacter sphaeroides in an effort to investigate its specific role in the bacterial bc(1) complex. The total deletion [cytb-Delta(309-326)] and alanine substitution [cytb-(309-326)A] mutant complexes have about 20% of the bc(1) activity found in the wild-type complex. Mutant complexes of cytb-(309-311)A, cytb-(312-314)A, cytb-(315-317)A, cytb-(318-321)A, cytb-(322-323)A, cytb-(324-326)A, cytb-(F323A), and cytb-(S322A) have respectively 87%, 85%, 89%, 100%, 32%, 90%, 100%, and 32% of the bc(1) activity, indicating that the S322 of cytochrome b is important. EPR spectral analysis reveals that the [2Fe-2S] cluster in the cytb-(S322A) mutant complex has a broadened and shifted g(x)() signal (g = 1.76). The 	2006	10	18	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Cytochromes b; Electron Transport Complex III; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Peptide Fragments; Protein Conformation; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Gong	Xing
16963577	10.1128/JB.00964-06	Two chemosensory operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are regulated independently by sigma 28 and sigma 54.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a complex chemosensory system, with several loci encoding multiple homologues of the components required for chemosensing in Escherichia coli. The operons cheOp2 and cheOp3 each encode complete pathways, and both are essential for chemosensing. The components of cheOp2 are predominantly localized to the cell pole, whereas those encoded by cheOp3 are predominantly targeted to a discrete cluster in the cytoplasm. Here we show that the expression of the two pathways is regulated independently. Overlapping promoters recognized by sigma(28) and sigma(70) RNAP holoenzyme transcribe cheOp2, whereas cheOp3 is regulated by one of the four sigma(54) homologues, RpoN3. The different regulation of these operons may reflect the need for balancing responses to extra- and intracellular signals under different growth conditions.	2006	12	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Chemotaxis; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Operon; Promoter Regions, Genetic; RNA Polymerase Sigma 54; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Transcription Initiation Site	Martin	Angela C
16950782	10.1074/jbc.M606016200	The CheYs of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The Escherichia coli two-component chemosensory pathway has been extensively studied, and its response regulator, CheY, has become a paradigm for response regulators. However, unlike E. coli, most chemotactic nonenteric bacteria have multiple CheY homologues. The roles and cellular localization of the CheYs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides were determined. Only two CheYs were required for chemotaxis, CheY(6) and either CheY(3) or CheY(4). These CheYs were partially localized to either of the two chemotaxis signaling clusters, with the remaining protein delocalized. Interestingly, mutation of the CheY(6) phosphorylatable aspartate to asparagine produced a stopped motor, caused by phosphorylation on alternative site Ser-83 by CheA. Extensive mutagenesis of E. coli CheY has identified a number of activating mutations, which have been extrapolated to other response regulators (D13K, Y106W, and I95V). Analogous mutations in R. sphaeroides CheYs did not cause activation. These results suggest that	2006	12	7	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Asparagine; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Hemagglutinins; In Vitro Techniques; Mass Spectrometry; Molecular Sequence Data; Phosphorylation; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Subcellular Fractions	Porter	Steven L
16939203	10.1021/bi0610000	Functional and structural analysis of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter veldkampii.	In the widely studied purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a small transmembrane protein, named PufX, is required for photosynthetic growth and is involved in the supramolecular dimeric organization of the core complex. We performed a structural and functional analysis of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter veldkampii, a related species which evolved independently. Time-resolved optical spectroscopy of R. veldkampii chromatophores showed that the reaction center shares with R. sphaeroides spectral and redox properties and interacts with a cytochrome bc(1) complex through a Q-cycle mechanism. Kinetic analysis of flash-induced cytochrome b(561) reduction indicated a fast delivery of the reduced quinol produced by the reaction center to the cytochrome bc(1) complex. A core complex, along with two light-harvesting LH2 complexes significantly different in size, was purified and analyzed by sedimentation, size exclusion chromatography, mass spectroscopy, and electron microscopy.	2006	10	16	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Gel; Cytochrome b Group; Fractionation, Field Flow; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Electron; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Gubellini	Francesca
16915353	10.1007/s11120-006-9086-4	Redox properties of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides transcriptional regulatory proteins PpsR and AppA.	Redox properties of the photosynthetic gene repressor PpsR and the blue-light photoreceptor/antirepressor AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been characterized. Redox titrations of PpsR reveal the presence of a two-electron couple, with an E (m) value of -320 mV at pH 7.0, which is likely to arise from the reversible conversion of two cysteine thiols to a disulfide. This E (m) value is very much more negative than the E (m) = -180 mV value measured previously at pH 7.0 for the disulfide/dithiol couple in CrtJ, the homolog for PpsR in the closely related bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus. AppA, a flavin-containing blue-light receptor that is also involved in the regulation of gene expression in R. sphaeroides, contains multiple cysteines in its C-terminal region, two of which function as a redox-active dithiol/disulfide couple with an E (m) value of -325 mV at pH 7.0 in the dark. Titrations of this dithiol/disulfide couple in illuminated samples of AppA indicate that the E (m) value 	2007	3	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidation-Reduction; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Kim	S-K
16896603	10.1007/s00253-006-0524-1	Biochemical characterization of the decaprenyl diphosphate synthase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides for coenzyme Q10 production.	Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)), like other CoQs of various organisms, plays indispensable roles not only in energy generation but also in several other processes required for cells' survival. In this study, a gene encoding for a decaprenyl diphosphate synthase (Rsdds) was cloned from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in Escherichia coli. The in vivo catalytic activity and product specificity of Rsdds were compared with those of a counterpart enzyme from Agrobacterium tumefaciens (Atdds) in E. coli as a heterologous host. In contrast with Atdds, Rsdds showed lower catalytic activity but higher product specificity for CoQ(10) production, as indicated by the amount of CoQ(9) formation. The higher product specificity of Rsdds was also confirmed by utilizing both Rsdds and Atdds for in vitro synthesis of polyprenyl diphosphates. Thin layer chromatography indicated that the Rsdds enzyme resulted in relatively much less solanesyl diphosphate formation. The purified Rsdds catalyzed the addition of isopentenyl	2007	4	5	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Agrobacterium tumefaciens; Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Cloning, Molecular; Coenzymes; DNA, Bacterial; Diphosphates; Diterpenes; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Hemiterpenes; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Organophosphorus Compounds; Polyisoprenyl Phosphates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sesquiterpenes; Substrate Specificity; Ubiquinone	Zahiri	Hossein Shahbani
16890226	10.1016/j.febslet.2006.07.036	Mutations which decouple the proton pump of the cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides perturb the environment of glutamate 286.	Mutants that decouple the proton pump of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides are postulated to do so by increasing the pK(a) of glutamate 286, which is 20 Angstrom away. The possibility that a conformational change near E286 is induced by the decoupling mutations (N139D and N207D) was investigated by FTIR difference spectroscopy. In both decoupled mutants, the reduced-minus-oxidized FTIR difference spectra show a shift of 2 cm(-1) to lower frequency of the band resulting from the absorbance of E286 in the oxidized enzyme. The decoupling mutants may influence E286 by altering the chain of water molecules which runs from the site of the mutations to E286.	2006	9	27	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Vakkasoglu	Ahmet S
16890186	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.06.010	Identification of amino acid residues essential for reconstitutive activity of subunit IV of the cytochrome bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A region of subunit IV comprising residues 77-85 is identified as essential for interaction with the core complex to restore the bc(1) activity (reconstitutive activity). Recombinant subunit IV mutants with single or multiple alanine substitution at this region were generated and characterized to identify the essential amino acid residues. Residues 81-84, with sequence of YRYR, are required for reconstitutive activity of subunit IV, because a mutant with these four residues substituted with alanine has little activity, while a mutant with alanine substitution at residues 77-80 and 85 have the same reconstitutive activity as that of the wild-type IV. The positively charged group at R-82 and R-84 and both the hydroxyl group and aromatic group at Y-81 and Y-83 are essential. The interactions between these four residues of subunit IV and residues of core subunits are also responsible for the stability of the complex. However, these interactions are not essential for the incorporation of su	2007	1	29	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Base Sequence; Catalytic Domain; DNA, Bacterial; Electron Transport Complex III; Escherichia coli; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Subunits; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Tso	Shih-Chia
16889416	10.1021/pr060050o	Application of the accurate mass and time tag approach to the proteome analysis of sub-cellular fractions obtained from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. Aerobic and photosynthetic cell cultures.	The high-throughput accurate mass and time (AMT) tag proteomic approach was utilized to characterize the proteomes for cytoplasm, cytoplasmic membrane, periplasm, and outer membrane fractions from aerobic and photosynthetic cultures of the gram-nagtive bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. In addition, we analyzed the proteins within purified chromatophore fractions that house the photosynthetic apparatus from photosynthetically grown cells. In total, 8,300 peptides were identified with high confidence from at least one subcellular fraction from either cell culture. These peptides were derived from 1,514 genes or 35% percent of proteins predicted to be encoded by the genome. A significant number of these proteins were detected within a single subcellular fraction and their localization was compared to in silico predictions. However, the majority of proteins were observed in multiple subcellular fractions, and the most likely subcellular localization for these proteins was investigat	2007	2	5	J Proteome Res	Journal of proteome research	Aerobiosis; Algorithms; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Fractionation; Cells, Cultured; Chromatography, Liquid; Genome, Bacterial; Mass Spectrometry; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptides; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Subcellular Fractions	Callister	Stephen J
16885439	10.1128/JB.00405-06	Activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides RpoHII, a second member of the heat shock sigma factor family.	We have identified a second RpoH homolog, RpoH(II), in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Primary amino acid sequence comparisons demonstrate that R. sphaeroides RpoH(II) belongs to a phylogenetically distinct group with RpoH orthologs from alpha-proteobacteria that contain two rpoH genes. Like its previously identified paralog, RpoH(I), RpoH(II) is able to complement the temperature-sensitive phenotype of an Escherichia coli sigma(32) (rpoH) mutant. In addition, we show that recombinant RpoH(I) and RpoH(II) each transcribe two E. coli sigma(32)-dependent promoters (rpoD P(HS) and dnaK P1) when reconstituted with E. coli core RNA polymerase. We observed differences, however, in the ability of each sigma factor to recognize six R. sphaeroides promoters (cycA P1, groESL(1), rpoD P(HS), dnaK P1, hslO, and ecfE), all of which resemble the E. coli sigma(32) promoter consensus. While RpoH(I) reconstituted with R. sphaeroides core RNA polymerase transcribed all six promoters, 	2006	9	18	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli; Heat-Shock Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Phylogeny; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor	Green	Heather A
16884279	10.1021/jp061201d	Mechanism of carotenoid singlet excited state energy transfer in modified bacterial reaction centers.	Ultrafast transient laser spectroscopy has been used to investigate carotenoid singlet excited state energy transfer in various Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides reaction centers (RCs) modified either genetically or chemically. The pathway and efficiency of energy transfer were examined as a function of the structures and energies of the donor and acceptor molecules. On the donor side, carotenoids with various extents of pi-electron conjugation were examined. RCs studied include those from the anaerobically grown wild-type strain containing the carotenoid spheroidene, which has 10 conjugated carbon-carbon double bonds; the GA strain containing neurosporene, which has nine conjugated double bonds; and aerobically grown wild-type cells, as well as aerobically grown H(M182)L mutant, both containing the carbonyl-containing carotenoid spheroidenone, which has 11 conjugated double bonds. By varying the structure of the carotenoid, we observed the effect of altering the energies of the carotenoid	2007	9	13	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Molecular Structure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Lin	Su
16877714	10.1110/ps.052035406	Resonance Raman characterization of archaeal and bacterial Rieske protein variants with modified hydrogen bond network around the [2Fe-2S] center.	The rate of quinol oxidation by cytochrome bc(1)/b(6)f complex is in part associated with the redox potential (E(m)) of its Rieske [2Fe-2S] center, for which an approximate correlation with the number of hydrogen bonds to the cluster has been proposed. Here we report comparative resonance Raman (RR) characterization of bacterial and archaeal high-potential Rieske proteins and their site-directed variants with a modified hydrogen bond network around the cluster. Major differences among their RR spectra appear to be associated in part with the presence or absence of Tyr-156 (in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides numbering) near one of the Cys ligands to the cluster. Elimination of the hydrogen bond between the terminal cysteinyl sulfur ligand (S(t)) and Tyr-Oeta (as with the Y156W variant, which has a modified histidine N(epsilon) pK(a,ox)) induces a small structural bias of the geometry of the cluster and the surrounding protein in the normal coordinate system, and significantly affects some F	2006	9	25	Protein Sci	Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	Amino Acid Sequence; Archaeal Proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Cysteine; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Sulfolobus; Tyrosine	Iwasaki	Toshio
16856937	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2006.05238.x	Study of an alternate glyoxylate cycle for acetate assimilation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Organisms, which grow on organic substrates that are metabolized via acetyl-CoA, are faced with the problem to form all cell constituents from this C(2)-unit. The problem was solved by the seminal work of Kornberg and is known as the glyoxylate cycle. However, many bacteria are known to not contain isocitrate lyase, the key enzyme of this pathway. This problem was addressed in acetate-grown Rhodobacter sphaeroides. An acetate-minus mutant identified by transposon mutagenesis was affected in the gene for beta-ketothiolase forming acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA. This enzyme activity was missing in this mutant, which grew on acetoacetate and on acetate plus glyoxylate. A second acetate/acetoacetate-minus mutant was affected in the gene for a putative mesaconyl-CoA hydratase, an enzyme which catalyses the hydration of mesaconyl-CoA to beta-methylmalyl-CoA. Beta-methylmalyl-CoA is further cleaved into glyoxylate and propionyl-CoA. These results as well as identification of	2006	10	6	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Acetates; Acetyl Coenzyme A; Acetyl-CoA C-Acyltransferase; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Dioxide; DNA Transposable Elements; Enzymes; Gene Order; Genome, Bacterial; Glyoxylates; Multigene Family; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Alber	Birgit E
16854992	10.1074/jbc.M601735200	Transcriptional specificity of RpoN1 and RpoN2 involves differential recognition of the promoter sequences and specific interaction with the cognate activator proteins.	The four RpoN factors of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are functionally specialized. In this bacterium, RpoN1 and RpoN2 are specifically required for the transcription of the nitrogen fixation and flagellar genes, respectively. Analysis of the promoter sequences recognized by each of these RpoN proteins revealed some significant differences. To investigate the functional relevance of these differences, the flagellar promoter fliOp was sequentially mutagenized to resemble the nitrogen fixation promoter nifUp. Our results indicate that the promoter sequences recognized by these sigma factors have diverged enough so that particular positions of the promoter sequence are differentially recognized. In this regard, we demonstrate that the identity of the -11-position is critical for promoter discrimination by RpoN1 and RpoN2. Accordingly, purified RpoN proteins with a deletion of Region I, which has been involved in the recognition of the -11-position, did not show differential binding of fliOp an	2006	10	31	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Base Sequence; Flagella; Genome, Bacterial; Glucuronidase; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nitrogen; Plasmids; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; RNA Polymerase Sigma 54; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Poggio	Sebastian
16854984	10.1074/jbc.M604103200	Identification of hydrogen bonds to the Rieske cluster through the weakly coupled nitrogens detected by electron spin echo envelope modulation spectroscopy.	The interaction of the reduced[2Fe-2S] cluster of isolated Rieske fragment from the bc1 complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with nitrogens (14N and 15N) from the local protein environment has been studied by X- and S-band pulsed EPR spectroscopy. The two-dimensional electron spin echo envelope modulation spectra of uniformly 15N-labeled protein show two well resolved cross-peaks with weak couplings of approximately 0.3-0.4 and 1.1 MHz in addition to couplings in the range of 6-8 MHz from two coordinating Ndelta of histidine ligands. The quadrupole coupling constants for weakly coupled nitrogens determined from S-band electron spin echo envelope modulation spectra identify them as Nepsilon of histidine ligands and peptide nitrogen (Np), respectively. Analysis of the line intensities in orientation-selected S-band spectra indicated that Np is the backbone N-atom of Leu-132 residue. The hyperfine couplings from Nepsilon and Np demonstrate the predominantly isotropic character resulting fro	2006	10	31	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Biochemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrons; Hydrogen; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Nitrogen; Peptides; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software; Sulfur	Dikanov	Sergei A
16849810	10.1099/mic.0.28961-0	Interacting specificity of a histidine kinase and its cognate response regulator: the PrrBA system of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Using a yeast two-hybrid assay system, it was demonstrated that the four-helix bundle of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PrrB histidine kinase both serves as the interaction site for the regulatory domain of its cognate response regulator PrrA and is the primary determinant of the interaction specificity. The alpha-helix 1 and its flanking turn region within the dimerization domain (DD) of the PrrB histidine kinase appear to play an important role in conferring the recognition specificity for the PrrA response regulator on the DD. The catalytic ATP-binding domain of the histidine kinase, which functions as the catalytic unit for the phosphotransfer reaction from ATP to the conserved histidine residue in the DD, also appears to contribute to the enhancement of the recognition specificity conferred by the DD. It was also revealed that replacement of Asp-63 and Lys-113 of the PrrA response regulator by alanine abolished protein-protein interactions between PrrA and its cognate histidine kinas	2006	9	14	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Histidine Kinase; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Kinases; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship; Two-Hybrid System Techniques	Seok	Jin-Sook
16841928	10.1021/ac060228q	Scanning electrochemical microscopy of the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in different environmental systems.	The present work uses a scanning electrochemical microscopy technique to study systems containing the membrane-bound reaction center protein (RC) from the purple photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter spheroides to chromatophores (spherical reorganization of cell membrane following its mechanical rupture) and liposomes (reconstituted membrane systems at lower degree of complexity). Scanning electrochemical microscopy is a useful tool to investigate redox processes involving a RC, because the effective heterogeneous rate constants for the redox reaction with different mediators can be measured. The technique is also able to provide information on the role of the outer cell membrane permeation on the kinetics of the electron-transfer processes and to obtain more insight into the nature of the species involved.	2007	4	18	Anal Chem	Analytical chemistry	Chromatophores; Electrochemistry; Environment; Liposomes; Microscopy, Electron, Scanning; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Longobardi	Francesco
16836253	10.1002/adic.200690019	Testing the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides as heavy metal removal tool.	We present some preliminary results relevant to the ability of the purple non-sulphur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain R26.1 to sequester heavy metals from contaminated growth media. The microorganism was chosen because of its significant tolerance to relatively high concentrations of the investigated ions Ni2+, Co2+, CrO4(2-), and MoO4(2-). In this paper the optimized conditions for the bacterial growth and the sample preparation used to infer the ability of the microorganism to cope with metal pollutants are presented. Elemental analysis has been performed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry previous mineralization of samples by a microwave system.	2006	8	23	Ann Chim	Annali di chimica	Environmental Pollutants; Metals, Heavy; Reference Standards; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Buccolieri	Alessandro
16829225	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.05.025	Vibrational coherence in bacterial reaction centers with genetically modified B-branch pigment composition.	Femtosecond absorption difference spectroscopy was applied to study the time and spectral evolution of low-temperature (90 K) absorbance changes in isolated reaction centers (RCs) of the HM182L mutant of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. In this mutant, the composition of the B-branch RC cofactors is modified with respect to that of wild-type RCs by replacing the photochemically inactive BB accessory bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) by a photoreducible bacteriopheophytin molecule (referred to as PhiB). We have examined vibrational coherence within the first 400 fs after excitation of the primary electron donor P with 20-fs pulses at 870 nm by studying the kinetics of absorbance changes at 785 nm (PhiB absorption band), 940 nm (P*-stimulated emission), and 1020 nm (BA- absorption band). The results of the femtosecond measurements are compared with those recently reported for native Rb. sphaeroides R-26 RCs containing an intact BB BChl. At delay times longer than approximately 50 fs (maximum at 1	2006	9	29	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Yakovlev	Andrei G
16828701	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.05.031	Generation, characterization and crystallization of a highly active and stable cytochrome bc1 complex mutant from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The availability of the three dimensional structure of mitochondrial enzyme, obtained by X-ray crystallography, allowed a significant progress in the understanding of the structure-function relation of the cytochrome bc(1) complex. Most of the structural information obtained has been confirmed by molecular genetic studies of the bacterial complex. Despite its small size and simple subunit composition, high quality crystals of the bacterial complex have been difficult to obtain and so far, only low resolution structural data has been reported. The low quality crystal observed is likely associated in part with the low activity and stability of the purified complex. To mitigate this problem, we recently engineered a mutant [S287R(cytb)/V135S(ISP)] from Rhodobacter sphaeroides to produce a highly active and more stable cytochrome bc(1) complex. The purified mutant complex shows a 40% increase in electron transfer activity as compared to that of the wild type enzyme. Differential scanning c	2006	9	18	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Calorimetry, Differential Scanning; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Elberry	Maria
16828186	10.1016/j.mimet.2006.04.021	Comparison of aerobic and photosynthetic Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 proteomes.	The analysis of proteomes from aerobic and photosynthetic Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 cell cultures by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry yielded approximately 6,500 high confidence peptides representing 1,675 gene products (39% of the predicted proteins). The identified proteins corresponded primarily to open reading frames (ORFs) contained within the two chromosomal elements of this bacterium, but a significant number were also observed from ORFs associated with 5 naturally occurring plasmids. Using the accurate mass and time (AMT) tag approach, comparative studies showed that a number of proteins were uniquely detected within the photosynthetic cell culture. The estimated abundances of proteins observed in both aerobic respiratory and photosynthetic grown cultures were compared to provide insights into bioenergetic models for both modes of growth. Additional emphasis was placed on gene products annotated as hypothetical to gain information as to their potential roles within t	2007	2	12	J Microbiol Methods	Journal of microbiological methods	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Liquid; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Mass Spectrometry; Open Reading Frames; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Callister	Stephen J
16820758		Effect of mutations of five conserved histidine residues in the catalytic subunit of the cbb3 cytochrome c oxidase on its function.	The cbb3 cytochrome c oxidase has the dual function as a terminal oxidase and oxygen sensor in the photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The cbb3 oxidase forms a signal transduction pathway together with the PrrBA two-component system that controls photosynthesis gene expression in response to changes in oxygen tension in the environment. Under aerobic conditions the cbb3 oxidase generates an inhibitory signal, which shifts the equilibrium of PrrB kinase/phosphatase activities towards the phosphatase mode. Photosynthesis genes are thereby turned off under aerobic conditions. The catalytic subunit (CcoN) of the R. sphaeroides cbb3 oxidase contains five histidine residues (H214, H233, H303, H320, and H444) that are conserved in all CcoN subunits of the cbb3 oxidase, but not in the catalytic subunits of other members of copper-heme superfamily oxidases. H214A mutation of CcoN affected neither catalytic activity nor sensory (signaling) function of the cbb3 oxidase, whereas H32	2006	8	29	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Oh	Jeong-Il
16819830	10.1021/bi0605843	Surface proton donors for the D-pathway of cytochrome c oxidase in the absence of subunit III.	The major proton-transfer pathway into the buried active site of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) is the D-pathway that begins with the subunit I residue Asp-132 on the inner protein surface (the cytoplasmic surface of the aa3-type CcO of Rhodobacter sphaeroides). Asp-132 is surrounded by residues from both subunits I and III. In the absence of subunit III, CcO retains activity, but the functional characteristics of the D-pathway are significantly altered such that the transfer of protons from Asp-132 into the pathway becomes the rate-limiting step. Determination of the pH-dependence of the rate constant for D-pathway proton uptake during the single-turnover of CcO indicates that the pKa of Asp-132 in the absence of subunit III is approximately 7. The removal of subunit III also allows for alternative surface proton donor/acceptors other than Asp-132. With Asp-132 altered to alanine, the rate constant for D-pathway proton uptake is very slow (5 s(-1)) in the presence of subunit III. Once sub	2006	8	25	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arachidonic Acid; Asparagine; Bacterial Proteins; Catalysis; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Adelroth	Pia
16816173	10.1128/JB.00086-06	The Brucella abortus cyclic beta-1,2-glucan virulence factor is substituted with O-ester-linked succinyl residues.	Brucella periplasmic cyclic beta-1,2-glucan plays an important role during bacterium-host interaction. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry analysis, thin-layer chromatography, and DEAE-Sephadex chromatography were used to characterize Brucella abortus cyclic glucan. In the present study, we report that a fraction of B. abortus cyclic beta-1,2-glucan is substituted with succinyl residues, which confer anionic character on the cyclic beta-1,2-glucan. The oligosaccharide backbone is substituted at C-6 positions with an average of two succinyl residues per glucan molecule. This O-ester-linked succinyl residue is the only substituent of Brucella cyclic glucan. A B. abortus open reading frame (BAB1_1718) homologous to Rhodobacter sphaeroides glucan succinyltransferase (OpgC) was identified as the gene encoding the enzyme responsible for cyclic glucan modification. This gene was named cgm for cyclic glucan modifier and is highly conserved in Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis. Nucleoti	2006	8	21	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Brucella abortus; Carbohydrate Conformation; Carbohydrate Sequence; Chromatography, Gel; Chromatography, Ion Exchange; Cloning, Molecular; DNA Primers; Escherichia coli; Glucans; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Succinates; Virulence Factors; beta-Glucans	Roset	Mara S
16815239	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.05.028	Free energy profiles for H+ conduction in the D-pathway of Cytochrome c Oxidase: a study of the wild type and N98D mutant enzymes.	The molecular mechanism for proton conduction in the D-pathway of Cytochrome c Oxidase (CcO) is investigated through the free energy profile, i.e., potential of mean force (PMF) calculations of both the native enzyme and the N98D mutant. The multistate empirical valence bond (MS-EVB) model was applied to simulate the interaction of an excess proton with the channel environment. In the study of the wild type enzyme, the PMF reveals the previously proposed proton trap inside the channel; it also shows a high free energy barrier against the passage of proton at the entry of the channel, where two conserved asparagines (ASN80/98) may be essential for the gating of proton uptake. We also present data from an investigation of the N98D mutant, which has been previously shown to completely eliminate proton pumping but significantly enhance the oxidase activity in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These results suggest that mutating Asn98 to negatively charged aspartate will create an unfavorable energy	2006	9	18	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Animals; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen; Myocardium; Point Mutation; Thermodynamics	Xu	Jiancong
16800622	10.1021/bi052183d	Calculated proton uptake on anaerobic reduction of cytochrome C oxidase: is the reaction electroneutral?	Cytochrome c oxidase is a transmembrane proton pump that builds an electrochemical gradient using chemical energy from the reduction of O(2). Ionization states of all residues were calculated with Multi-Conformation Continuum Electrostatics (MCCE) in seven anaerobic oxidase redox states ranging from fully oxidized to fully reduced. One long-standing problem is how proton uptake is coupled to the reduction of the active site binuclear center (BNC). The BNC has two cofactors: heme a(3) and Cu(B). If the protein needs to maintain electroneutrality, then 2 protons will be bound when the BNC is reduced by 2 electrons in the reductive half of the reaction cycle. The effective pK(a)s of ionizable residues around the BNC are evaluated in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase. At pH 7, only a hydroxide coordinated to Cu(B) shifts its pK(a) from below 7 to above 7 and so picks up a proton when heme a(3) and Cu(B) are reduced. Glu I-286, Tyr I-288, His I-334, and a second hydroxide on heme	2006	8	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Metals; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Song	Yifan
16794769	10.1007/s10529-006-9063-1	Biological synthesis of semiconductor zinc sulfide nanoparticles by immobilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A novel, clean biological transformation reaction by immobilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been developed for the synthesis of zinc sulfide (ZnS) nanoparticles with an average diameter of 8 nm. The nanoparticles were examined by X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, energy dispersive analyses of X-rays, UV-vis optical absorption and photoluminescence spectra. The average diameter of ZnS nanoparticles varied according to the culture time.	2007	2	12	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Bacterial Adhesion; Biotransformation; Cells, Immobilized; Nanoparticles; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Semiconductors; Sulfides; Zinc Compounds	Bai	Hong-Juan
16784242	10.1021/bi060172u	In situ kinetics of cytochromes c1 and c2.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores, cytochromes (cyt) c(1) and c(2) have closely overlapping spectra, and their spectral deconvolution provides a challenging task. As a result, analyses of the kinetics of different cytochrome components of the bc(1) complex in purple bacteria usually report only the sum cyt c(1) + cyt c(2) kinetics. Here we used newly determined difference spectra of individual components to resolve the kinetics of cyt c(1) and c(2) in situ via a least-squares (LS) deconvolution. We found that the kinetics of cyt c(1) and c(2) are significantly different from those measured using the traditional difference wavelength (DW) approach, based on the difference in the absorbance at two different wavelengths specific for each component. In particular, with the wavelength pairs previously recommended, differences in instrumental calibration led to kinetics of flash-induced cyt c(1) oxidation measured with the DW method which were faster than those determined by the LS m	2006	8	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Antimycin A; Cytochromes c1; Cytochromes c2; Kinetics; Least-Squares Analysis; Methacrylates; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Thiazoles	Shinkarev	Vladimir P
16784239	10.1021/bi060683g	Activation of the global gene regulator PrrA (RegA) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	PrrA is a global transcription regulator activated upon phosphorylation by its cognate kinase PrrB in response to low oxygen levels in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Here we show by gel filtration, analytical ultracentrifugation, and NMR diffusion measurements that treatment of PrrA with a phosphate analogue, BeF(3)(-), results in dimerization of the protein, producing a protein that binds DNA. No dimeric species was observed in the absence of BeF(3)(-). Upon addition of BeF(3)(-), the inhibitory activity of the N-terminal domain on the C-terminal DNA-binding domain is relieved, after which PrrA becomes capable of binding DNA as a dimer. The interaction surface of the DNA-binding domain with the regulatory domain of PrrA is identified by NMR as being a well-conserved region centered on helix alpha6, which is on the face opposite from the DNA recognition helix. This suggests that there is no direct blockage of DNA binding in the inactive state but rather that PrrA dimerization promotes a corr	2006	8	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Beryllium; Chromatography, Gel; DNA-Binding Proteins; Dimerization; Fluorides; Histidine Kinase; Molecular Sequence Data; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Protein Kinases; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Signal Transduction; Transcriptional Activation; Ultracentrifugation	Laguri	C..dric
16775747	10.1007/s00203-006-0108-6	Characterization of a mutant strain of Rhodovulum sulfidophilum lacking the pufA and pufB genes encoding the polypeptides for the light-harvesting complex 1 (B 870).	Contradictory results on the effectiveness of energy transfer from the light harvesting complex 2 (LH2) directly to the reaction center (RC) in mutant strains lacking the core light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1) have been obtained with cells of Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. A LH1(-) mutant of Rhodovulum sulfidophilum, named rsLRI, was constructed by deletion of the pufBA genes, resulting in a kanamycin resistant photosynthetically positive clone. To restore the wild type phenotype, a complemented strain C2 was constructed by inserting in trans a DNA segment containing the pufBA genes. Light-induced FTIR difference spectra indicate that the RC in the rsLRI mutant and in the C2 complemented strains are functionally and structurally identical with those in the wild type strain, demonstrating that the assembly and the function of the RC is not impaired by the LH1 deletion. The photosynthetic growth rate of the rsLRI strain increased with decreasing light intensity. At 50	2007	2	6	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Genetic; Mutagenesis; Mutation; Peptides; Rhodovulum; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Raiger-Iustman	Laura J
16732448	10.1007/s00284-005-0057-3	Light-dependent transformation of aniline to indole esters by the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5.	In an attempt to understand the aromatic hydrocarbon metabolism by purple bacteria that do not grow at their expense, we earlier reported 2-aminobenzoate transformation by a purple non-sulfur bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 (Sunayana et al., 2005, J Ind Microbiol Biotech 32:41-45), which is extended in the present study with aniline, a major environmental pollutant. Aniline did not support photo (light anaerobic) or chemo (dark aerobic) heterotrophic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 either as a sole source of carbon or nitrogen. However, light-dependent aniline transformation was observed in the culture supernatants and the products were identified as indole derivatives. The transformation was dependent on a tricarboxylate intermediate, fumarate. Five intermediates of the aniline biotransformation pathway were isolated and identified as indole esters having a mass of 443, 441, 279, 189, and 167 with unstoichiometric total indole yields of 0.16 mM: from 5 mM: of aniline cons	2006	7	13	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Aniline Compounds; Biodegradation, Environmental; Fumarates; Indoles; Light; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Xenobiotics	Shanker	Vijay
16730321	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.04.003	Spectral and kinetic resolution of the bc1 complex components in situ: a simple and robust alternative to the traditional difference wavelength approach.	The kinetics of the cytochrome (cyt) components of the bc(1) complex (ubiquinol: cytochrome c oxidoreductase, Complex III) are traditionally followed by using the difference of absorbance changes at two or more different wavelengths. However, this difference-wavelength (DW) approach is of limited accuracy in the separation of absorbance changes of components with overlapping spectral bands. To resolve the kinetics of individual components in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores, we have tested a simplified version of a least squares (LS) analysis, based on measurement at a minimal number of different wavelengths. The success of the simplified LS analysis depended significantly on the wavelengths used in the set. The "traditional" set of 6 wavelengths (542, 551, 561, 566, 569 and 575 nm), normally used in the DW approach to characterize kinetics of cyt c(tot) (cyt c(1)+cyt c(2)), cyt b(L), cyt b(H), and P870 in chromatophores, could also be used to determine these components via the s	2006	8	22	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport Complex III; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shinkarev	Vladimir P
16714340	10.1529/biophysj.105.067561	Reconstruction of a kinetic model of the chromatophore vesicles from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We present a molecular model of a chromatophore vesicle from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These vesicles are ideal benchmark systems for molecular and systemic simulations, because they have been well studied, they are small, and they are naturally separated from their cellular environment. To set up a photosynthetic chain working under steady-state conditions, we compiled from the experimental literature the specific activities and geometries that have been determined for their constituents. This data then allowed defining the stoichiometries for all membrane proteins. This article contains the kinetic part of the reconstructed model, while the spatial reconstruction is presented in a companion article. By considering the transport properties of the Cytochrome c(2) and ubiquinone pools, we show that their size and oxidation states allow for an efficient buffering of the statistical fluctuations that arise from the small size of the vesicles. Stoichiometric and kinetic considerations indic	2006	11	20	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	ATP Synthetase Complexes; Biological Transport; Biophysics; Chromatophores; Cytochromes c2; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Biological; Models, Theoretical; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone	Geyer	Tiham..r
16714339	10.1529/biophysj.105.078501	A spatial model of the chromatophore vesicles of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the position of the Cytochrome bc1 complex.	The photosynthetic apparatus of purple bacteria is generally considered a well-studied and understood system. However, recent atomic force microscopy images of flattened chromatophore vesicles from Rhodobacter sphaeroides restarted a debate about the stoichiometry and positions of the membrane proteins, with the interpretations of the observed images only partly being in agreement with earlier models. The most puzzling observation from the recent images is that the Cytochrome bc(1) complex, which is a central part of the photosynthetic apparatus, seems to be missing on the chromatophore vesicles, even when these were extracted from photosynthetically grown bacteria. From the available information on the geometry of the vesicle and of the proteins we reconstructed here a three-dimensional model vesicle at molecular resolution. Its central feature, also determining its diameter of approximately 45 nm, is an equatorial array of LH1 dimers, lined by a region of LH2 rings. This naturally pu	2006	11	20	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Adenosine Triphosphatases; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatophores; Dimerization; Electron Transport Complex III; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Geyer	Tiham..r
16702547	10.1073/pnas.0600919103	The positioning of cytoplasmic protein clusters in bacteria.	Cell division is a carefully orchestrated procedure. Bacterial cells have intricate mechanisms to ensure that genetic material is copied, proofread, and accurately partitioned into daughter cells. Partitioning now appears to also occur for some cytoplasmic proteins. Previously, using chromosomal fluorescent protein fusions, we demonstrated that a subset of Rhodobacter sphaeroides chemotaxis proteins colocalize to a discrete region within the bacterial cytoplasm. Using TlpT-yellow fluorescent protein as a marker for the position of the cytoplasmic protein clusters, we show most cells contain either one cluster localized at mid-cell or two clusters at the one-fourth and three-fourths positions of cell length. The number and positioning of these protein clusters depend on a previously unrecognized bacterial protein positioning factor, PpfA, which has homology to bacterial type I DNA partitioning factors. These data suggest that there is a mechanism involved in partitioning some cytoplasmi	2006	7	5	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Division; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; DNA; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Thompson	Stephen R
16700547	10.1021/bi060288q	Structural and functional studies on DHC, the diheme cytochrome c from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and its interaction with SHP, the sphaeroides heme protein.	The diheme cytochrome c (DHC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a soluble protein with a mass of 16 kDa that represents a new class of c-type cytochrome [Vandenberghe, I., et al. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 13075-13081]. The gene encoding DHC is associated with another encoding a cytochrome known as SHP (sphaeroides heme protein). It is believed that DHC is the electron donor for SHP, which is known to bind oxygen. To gain further insight into the properties and role of DHC, we have carried out structure-function studies on the protein and examined its interaction with SHP. The crystal structures of native and recombinant DHC have been determined to resolutions of 1.85 and 2.0 A, respectively. The structures show that DHC folds into two distinct domains each containing one heme. While the N-terminal domain is a class I cytochrome c, the C-terminal domain shows no similarity to any existing structures and thus constitutes a novel cytochrome c structural motif. The shortest, edge-to-edge, dist	2006	7	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome c Group; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Potentiometry; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship	Gibson	Helen R
16684526	10.1016/j.febslet.2006.04.079	Redox-responsive in vitro modulation of the signalling state of the isolated PrrB sensor kinase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides NCIB 8253.	Prr is a global regulatory system that controls a large and diverse range of genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides in response to changing conditions of environmental redox potential. PrrB is the membrane-bound sensor kinase and previously we showed that the purified, detergent-solubilised intact membrane protein is functional in autophosphorylation, phosphotransfer and phosphatase activities. Here we confirm that it also senses and responds directly to its environmental signal, redox potential; strong autophosphorylation of PrrB occurred in response to dithiothreitol (DTT)-induced reducing conditions (and levels increased in response to a wide 0.1-100 mM DTT range), whilst under oxidising conditions, PrrB exhibited low, just detectable levels of autophosphorylation. The clear response of PrrB to changes in reducing conditions confirmed its suitability for in vitro studies to identify modulators of its phosphorylation signalling state, and was used here to investigate whether PrrB might sen	2006	7	21	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Adenosine Monophosphate; Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Proteins; Dithiothreitol; Energy Metabolism; NAD; Oxidation-Reduction; Phosphorylation; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Potter	Christopher A
16672451	10.1128/AEM.72.5.3147-3153.2006	Genetic and biochemical evidence for the involvement of a molybdenum-dependent enzyme in one of the selenite reduction pathways of Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106.	Selenite reduction in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans was observed under photosynthetic conditions, following a 100-h lag period. This adaptation period was suppressed if the medium was inoculated with a culture previously grown in the presence of selenite, suggesting that selenite reduction involves an inducible enzymatic pathway. A transposon library was screened to isolate mutants affected in selenite reduction. Of the eight mutants isolated, two were affected in molybdenum cofactor synthesis. These moaA and mogA mutants showed an increased duration of the lag phase and a decreased rate of selenite reduction. When grown in the presence of tungstate, a well-known molybdenum-dependent enzyme (molybdoenzyme) inhibitor, the wild-type strain displayed the same phenotype. The addition of tungstate in the medium or the inactivation of the molybdocofactor synthesis induced a decrease of 40% in the rate of selenite reduction. These results suggest that several pathways are invol	2006	7	26	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Coenzymes; Culture Media; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Metalloproteins; Molybdenum Cofactors; Nitrates; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxidoreductases Acting on Sulfur Group Donors; Pteridines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Selenite; Tungsten Compounds	Pierru	B..n..dicte
16671753	10.1021/jp0534131	Orientational control of the physiological reaction of cytochrome c oxidase tethered to a gold electrode.	The physiological reaction of a membrane protein is reconstituted on a solid-supported electrode by orientational control via the position of an affinity tag. Recombinant cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is immobilized on a chemically modified gold surface via the affinity of a histidine tag (His-tag) to a nickel chelating nitrilotriacetic acid surface. Control of the orientation is achieved by the adsorption of CcO through the His-tag engineered into the two opposite sites of the membrane protein surface. After reconstitution into a lipid layer, the functionality of this enzyme film electrode is probed by surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. We demonstrate that cytochrome c (Cc) binds and initiates the catalytic reaction of CcO only when the latter is orientated with subunit II facing the bulk aqueous phase while Cc does not interact with the oppositely orientated CcO. We infer from the observed catalytic dioxygen reduction a	2007	6	22	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Adsorption; Electrochemistry; Electrodes; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzymes, Immobilized; Gold; Kinetics; Membranes, Artificial; Models, Molecular; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Surface Properties	Ataka	Kenichi
16669619	10.1021/bi060169a	Sequence analysis of the cbb3 oxidases and an atomic model for the Rhodobacter sphaeroides enzyme.	The cbb3-type oxidases are members of the heme-copper oxidase superfamily, distant by sequence comparisons, but sharing common functional characteristics. To understand the minimal common properties of the superfamily, and to learn about cbb3-type oxidases specifically, we have analyzed a wide set of heme-copper oxidase sequences and built a homology model of the catalytic subunit of the cbb3 oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We conclude that with regard to the active site surroundings, the cbb3 oxidases greatly resemble the structurally known oxidases, while major differences are found in three segments: the additional N-terminal stretch of ca. 60 amino acids, the segment following helix 3 to the end of helix 5, and the C-terminus from helix 11 onward. The conserved core contains the active site tyrosine and also an analogue of the K-channel of proton transfer, but centered on a well-conserved histidine in the lower part of helix 7. Modeling the variant parts of the enzyme suggest	2006	6	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Sharma	Vivek
16637331		[Effect of hydrogen bonds on the energetics of electron transfer].	For a model system consisting of a special pair of bacteriochlorophyll molecules (P) and a primary quinone with the nearest environment (QA) (which are acceptor and donor in the recombination reaction in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center, respectively), energies of P+QA(-) and PQA states were calculated. Calculations were performed using several stable QA conformations differing by the positions of hydrogen bond protons. Essential influence of proton positions on the energy of vertical transition P+QA(-) --&gt; PQA was shown.	2006	5	26	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plastoquinone; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Krasil'nikova	P M
16634646	10.1021/bi052071m	Uncoupling of electron and proton transfers in the photocycle of bacterial reaction centers under high light intensity.	Photosynthetic reaction centers produce and export oxidizing and reducing equivalents in expense of absorbed light energy. The formation of fully reduced quinone (quinol) requires a strict (1:1) stoichiometric ratio between the electrons and H(+) ions entering the protein. The steady-state rates of both transports were measured separately under continuous illumination in the reaction center from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The uptake of the first proton was retarded by different methods and made the rate-limiting reaction in the photocycle. As expected, the rate constant of the observed proton binding remained constant (7 s(-)(1)), but that of the cytochrome photooxidation did show a remarkably large increase from 14 to 136 s(-)(1) upon increase of the exciting light intensity up to 5 W/cm(2) (808 nm) at pH 8.4 in the presence of NiCl(2). This corresponds to about 20:1 (e(-):H(+)) stoichiometric ratio. The observed enhancement is linearly proportional to the l	2006	6	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cytochromes; Electrons; Herbicides; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides; Ubiquinone	Gerencs..r	L..szl..
16622064	10.1099/mic.0.28524-0	Electron transfer to nitrite reductase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3: examination of cytochromes c2 and cY.	The role of cytochrome c(2), encoded by cycA, and cytochrome c(Y), encoded by cycY, in electron transfer to the nitrite reductase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 was investigated using both in vivo and in vitro approaches. Both cycA and cycY were isolated, sequenced and insertionally inactivated in strain 2.4.3. Deletion of either gene alone had no apparent effect on the ability of R. sphaeroides to reduce nitrite. In a cycA-cycY double mutant, nitrite reduction was largely inhibited. However, the expression of the nitrite reductase gene nirK from a heterologous promoter substantially restored nitrite reductase activity in the double mutant. Using purified protein, a turnover number of 5 s(-1) was observed for the oxidation of cytochrome c(2) by nitrite reductase. In contrast, oxidation of c(Y) only resulted in a turnover of approximately 0.1 s(-1). The turnover experiments indicate that c(2) is a major electron donor to nitrite reductase but c(Y) is probably not. Taken together, thes	2006	9	21	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes c2; DNA, Bacterial; Electron Transport; Gene Deletion; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrites; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Laratta	William P
16621813	10.1128/JB.188.9.3208-3218.2006	In vitro and in vivo analysis of the role of PrrA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 hemA gene expression.	The hemA gene codes for one of two synthases in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 which catalyze the formation of 5-aminolevulinic acid. We have examined the role of PrrA, a DNA binding protein that is associated with the metabolic switch between aerobic growth and anoxygenic photosynthetic growth, in hemA expression and found that hemA transcription is directly activated by PrrA. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays and DNase I protection assays, we have mapped two binding sites for PrrA within the hemA upstream sequences, each of which contains an identical 9-bp motif. Using lacZ transcription reporter plasmids in wild-type strain 2.4.1 and PrrA- mutant strain PRRA2, we showed that PrrA was required for maximal expression. We also found that the relative impacts of altering DNA sequences within the two binding sites are different depending on whether cells are growing aerobically or anaerobically. This reveals a greater level of complexity associated with PrrA-mediated regulation 	2006	6	12	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ranson-Olson	Britton
16605267	10.1021/bi0522246	The disulfide bridge in the head domain of rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c1 is needed to maintain its structural integrity.	Cytochrome c(1) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides ubiquinol-cytochrome c oxidoreductase contains several insertions and deletions that distinguish it from the complex of other higher organisms. Additionally, this bacterial cytochrome c(1) contains two nonconserved cysteines, C145 and C169, with the latter included in the second long insertion located upstream of the sixth heme ligand, M185. The orientation of the insertions and the state of these non-heme binding cysteines remain unknown. Mutating one or both cysteines is found to have comparable effects on the functionality of the cytochrome bc(1) complex. Mutants show an electron transfer activity decreased to a rate that is still high enough to support delayed photosynthetic growth. The mutated cytochrome c(1) has a decreased E(m) without any alteration in the heme ligation environment since none of the mutants binds carbon monoxide. The low E(m) is believed to be caused by a structural modification in the head domain of cytochrome c(1). A	2006	5	31	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Blotting, Western; Catalysis; Cysteine; Cytochromes c1; Disulfides; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Horses; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship	Elberry	Maria
16584209	10.1021/la053367w	Selective recruitment of membrane protein complexes onto gold substrates patterned by dip-pen nanolithography.	Dip-pen nanolithography (DPN) is employed to develop a generic array platform for the selective recruitment of membrane protein complexes. An atomic force microscope tip inked with HS(CH2)16NH2 is used to generate amino-terminated domains on gold. These domains can be arranged into microscopic and submicroscopic patterns, and the untreated gold substrate is subsequently blocked with HS(CH2)2CONH(CH2CH2O)15CH3, a compound known to resist the unspecific binding of proteins and cells. The patterned gold substrate is exposed to an enriched membrane fraction from mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which contains photosynthetic core complexes consisting of the reaction center and the light-harvesting complex LH1. The selective recruitment to the patterned domains, governed primarily by electrostatic interactions, is confirmed by contact mode atomic force microscopy.	2007	7	9	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Adsorption; Bacterial Proteins; Gold; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Nanotechnology; Protein Binding; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Substrate Specificity; Sulfhydryl Compounds; Surface Properties	Valiokas	Ram..nas
16584005	10.1134/s160767290601011x	Spectral and temporal dynamics of transitional processes in the reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the region of 780-830 nm.	NA	2006	6	2	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Gorokhov	V V
16571008	10.1021/jp054850i	Electronic transitions of the Soret band of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides studied by femtosecond transient absorbance spectroscopy.	The Soret band of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been systematically studied using femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy. When the excitation wavelength was scanned over the entire Soret band, the approximate absorption spectra of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, the monomer bacteriochlorophylls, and the bacteriopheophytins within the Soret band were determined by analyzing the ground state bleaching with about 100 fs resolution. The main contribution of H is on the blue end of the spectrum, peaking near 350 nm, P absorbs mostly on the red side of the spectrum, but probably has multiple bands, and the main absorbance of B likely lies between H and P, overlapping with P on the red side (particularly near 390 nm). The energy transfer from B to P in the QY band takes about 300 fs when Soret-band excitation is used and the time constant of overall energy transfer from H to B to P in the QY band when H is specifically excited near 350 nm is about 500 fs. Internal co	2007	7	31	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Wang	Haiyu
16549670	10.1099/mic.0.28603-0	Identification of a transposable genomic island of Paracoccus pantotrophus DSM 11072 by its transposition to a novel entrapment vector pMMB2.	A novel shuttle entrapment vector, pMMB2, was used to identify a large transposable element, TnPpa1 (44.3 kb), of Paracoccus pantotrophus DSM 11072. TnPpa1 has a composite structure with divergently oriented copies of a cryptic transposon, Tn3434 (Tn3 family), located at both termini. The core region of the element contains a large set of putative genes, whose products show similarity to enzymes involved in central intermediary metabolism (e.g. tricarboxylic acid cycle or 2-methylcitrate cycle), transporters, transcriptional regulators and conserved proteins of unknown function. A 4.2 kb DNA segment of TnPpa1 is homologous to a region of chromosome cII of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, which exemplifies the mosaic structure of this element. TnPpa1 is bordered by 5 bp long directly repeated sequences and is located within a mega-sized replicon, pWKS5, in the DSM 11072 genome. Spontaneous inversion of the core region of TnPpa1 was detected in the host genome. Analysis of the distribution	2006	7	21	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Base Composition; Carrier Proteins; Chromosome Inversion; Citric Acid Cycle; Conserved Sequence; DNA Transposable Elements; DNA, Bacterial; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Order; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genes, Regulator; Genetic Vectors; Genomic Islands; Molecular Biology; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Paracoccus pantotrophus; Repetitive Sequences, Nucleic Acid; Replicon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Mikosa	Malgorzata
16533858	10.1529/biophysj.105.070029	Kinetic analysis of the thermal stability of the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The temperature-induced denaturation of the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied through the changes that occur in the absorption spectrum of the bound chromophores on heating. At elevated temperatures, the characteristic absorbance bands of the bacteriochlorins bound to the polypeptides within the reaction center are lost, and are replaced by features typical of unbound bacteriochlorophyll and bacteriopheophytin. The kinetics of the spectral changes cannot be explained by a direct conversion from the functional to the denatured form of the protein, and require the presence of at least one intermediate. Possible mechanisms for the transformation via an intermediate are examined using a global analysis of the kinetic data, and the most likely mechanism is shown to involve a reversible transformation between the native state and an off-pathway intermediate, coupled to an irreversible transformation to the denatured state. The activation energies fo	2006	8	7	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Kinetics; Liposomes; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Hughes	Arwel V
16522805	10.1110/ps.052015606	Functional contribution of a conserved, mobile loop histidine of phosphoribulokinase.	In the Rhodobacter sphaeroides phosphoribulokinase (PRK) structure, there are several disordered regions, including a loop containing invariant residues Y98 and H100. The functional importance of these residues has been unclear. PRK is inactivated by diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC) and protected by the substrates ATP and Ru5P, as well as by the competitive inhibitor, 6-phosphogluconate, suggesting active site histidine residue(s). PRK contains only three invariant histidines: H45, H100, and H134. Previous mutagenesis studies discount significant function for H134, but implicate H45 in Ru5P binding. PRK mutant H45N is inactivated by DEPC, implicating a second active site histidine. To evaluate the function of H100, as well as another invariant loop residue Y98, PRK mutants Y98L, H100A, H100N, and H100Q were characterized. Mutant PRK binding stoichiometries for the fluorescent alternative substrate, trinitrophenyl-ATP, as well as the allosteric activator, NADH, are comparable to wild-type P	2006	8	18	Protein Sci	Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Conserved Sequence; Diethyl Pyrocarbonate; Evaluation Studies as Topic; Histidine; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor); Point Mutation; Protein Structure, Secondary; Sequence Alignment	Runquist	Jennifer A
16521549		[A study of protein structure changes during hydration by means of diffuse X-ray scattering. II. Fourier transform analysis of X-ray scattering data].	Radial distribution functions were deduced by Fourier transform analysis of angular dependences of diffuse x-ray scattering intensities for the following proteins with different hydration degree: water-soluble a-protein myoglobin, water-soluble alpha+beta protein lysozyme, and transmembrane proteins of photosynthetic reaction centers from purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Blastochlorii viridis. The results of Fourier analysis of x-ray scattering intensities give the quantitative characteristics of the mechanisms underlying the influence of water on the formation of biomacromolecules. Water, on the one hand, weakens the intraglobular hydrogen bond net, loosens the protein structure, and increases the internal conformational dynamics. Concurrently water arranges the stability and ordering of the macromolecule. A sharp correlation is observed between the shift of the "first" peak of radial distribution functions, the weakening of the intraglobular hydrogen bond net, the increase	2006	4	3	Biofizika	Biofizika	Animals; Fourier Analysis; Protein Conformation; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water; X-Ray Diffraction	Krupianski..	Iu F
16517672	10.1128/AEM.72.3.2200-2205.2006	Assessing the impact of denitrifier-produced nitric oxide on other bacteria.	A series of experiments was undertaken to learn more about the impact on other bacteria of nitric oxide (NO) produced during denitrification. The denitrifier Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 was chosen as a denitrifier for these experiments. To learn more about NO production by this bacterium, NO levels during denitrification were measured by using differential mass spectrometry. This revealed that NO levels produced during nitrate respiration by this bacterium were in the low muM range. This concentration of NO is higher than that previously measured in denitrifiers, including Achromobacter cycloclastes and Paracoccus denitrificans. Therefore, both 2.4.3 and A. cycloclastes were used in this work to compare the effects of various NO levels on nondenitrifying bacteria. By use of bacterial overlays, it was found that the NO generated by A. cycloclastes and 2.4.3 cells during denitrification inhibited the growth of both Bacillus subtilis and R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 but that R. sphaeroides 2.4.	2006	5	30	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Achromobacter cycloclastes; Bacillus subtilis; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mass Spectrometry; Nitrates; Nitric Oxide; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Choi	Peter S
16515869	10.1016/j.jmr.2006.02.008	Distance between a native cofactor and a spin label in the reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by a two-frequency pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance method and molecular dynamics simulations.	The distance between the paramagnetic state of a native cofactor and a spin label is measured in the photosynthetic reaction centre from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26. A two-frequency pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance method [double-electron-electron spin resonance (DEER)] is used. A distance of 3.05 nm between the semiquinone anion state of the primary acceptor (Q(A)) and the spin label at the native cysteine at position 156 in the H-subunit is found. Molecular-dynamics (MD) simulations are performed to interpret the distance. A 6 ns run comprising the entire RC protein yields a distance distribution that is close to the experimental one. The average distance found by the MD simulation is smaller than the distance obtained by DEER by at least 0.2 nm. To better represent the experiments performed at low temperature (60K), a MD method to mimic the freezing-in of the room-temperature conformations is introduced. Both MD methods yield similar distances, but the second met	2006	7	13	J Magn Reson	Journal of magnetic resonance (San Diego, Calif. : 1997)	Anions; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spin Labels; Zinc	Borovykh	Igor V
16513249	10.1016/j.bpc.2006.02.002	Analysis of absorption spectra of purple bacterial reaction centers in the near infrared region by higher order derivative spectroscopy.	Reaction centers (RCs) of purple bacteria are uniquely suited objects to study the mechanisms of the photosynthetic conversion of light energy into chemical energy. A recently introduced method of higher order derivative spectroscopy [I.K. Mikhailyuk, H. Lokstein, A.P. Razjivin, A method of spectral subband decomposition by simultaneous fitting the initial spectrum and a set of its derivatives, J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 63 (2005) 10-23] was used to analyze the NIR absorption spectra of RC preparations from Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides strain 2R and Blastochloris (B.) viridis strain KH, containing bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a and b, respectively. Q(y) bands of individual RC porphyrin components (BChls and bacteriopheophytins, BPheo) were identified. The results indicate that the upper exciton level P(y+) of the photo-active BChl dimer in RCs of R. sphaeroides has an absorption maximum of 810nm. The blue shift of a complex integral band at approximately 800nm upon oxidation of the RC 	2006	9	8	Biophys Chem	Biophysical chemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Hyphomicrobiaceae; Infrared Rays; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Mikhailyuk	I K
16495071	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2005.12.015	Photodynamics of the small BLUF protein BlrB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The BLUF protein BlrB from the non-sulphur anoxyphototrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is characterized by absorption and emission spectroscopy. BlrB expressed from E. coli binding FAD, FMN, and riboflavin (called BrlB(I)) and recombinant BlrB containing only FAD (called BlrB(II)) are investigated. The dark-adapted proteins exist in two different receptor conformations (receptor states) with different sub-nanosecond fluorescence lifetimes (BLUF(r,f) and BLUF(r,sl)). Some of the flavin-cofactor (ca. 8%) is unbound in thermodynamic equilibrium with the bound cofactor. The two receptor conformations are transformed to putative signalling states (BLUF(s,f) and BLUF(s,sl)) of decreased fluorescence efficiency and shortened fluorescence lifetime by blue-light excitation. In the dark at room temperature both signalling states recover back to the initial receptor states with a time constant of about 2s. Quantum yields of signalling state formation of about 90% for BlrB(II) and a	2006	8	10	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Binding Sites; Flavin Mononucleotide; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Oxidation-Reduction; Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases; Photochemistry; Photoreceptor Cells; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors	Zirak	P
16494502	10.1080/07391102.2006.10507077	The observation of ultrafast excited-state dynamical evolution in B800- partially or completely released LH2 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 601 at room temperature.	Photodynamics of two kinds of peripheral antenna complexes (LH2 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, native LH2 (RS601) and B800-released LH2 where B800-BChls were partially or completely removed with different pH treatments), were studied using femtosecond pump-probe technique at different laser wavelengths. The obtained results for these samples with different B800/B850 ratios demonstrated that under the excitation around B800 nm, the photoabsorption and photobleaching dynamics were caused by the direct excitation of upper excitonic levels of B850 and excited state of B800 pigments, respectively. Furthermore, the removal of B800 pigments had little effect on the energy transfer processes of B850 interband/intraband transfer.	2006	5	11	J Biomol Struct Dyn	Journal of biomolecular structure &amp; dynamics	Bacterial Proteins; Electrochemistry; Energy Transfer; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Liu	Weimin
16494350	10.1021/jp0517955	Investigation of the effects of different carotenoids on the absorption and CD signals of light harvesting 1 complexes.	Absorption and circular dichroism (CD) spectra of light-harvesting (LH)1 complexes from the purple bacteria Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides and Rhodospirillum (Rsp.) rubrum are presented. The complexes exhibit very low intensity, highly nonconservative, near-infrared (NIR) CD spectra. Absorption and CD spectra from several mutant and reconstituted LH1 complexes, with the carotenoid neurosporene and the precursor phytoene replacing the wild-type (WT) carotenoids, are also examined. The experiments show that the position of the carotenoid bands as well as the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl)/carotenoid ratio affect the NIR CD spectra: bluer bands and larger ratios make the NIR CD signal more conservative. Modeling results that support this finding are presented. This study, combined with the theoretical approach of the companion paper, where modeling of such complexes is presented and discussed in detail, provide a complete explanation of the origin of the nonconservative NIR CD spectra of LH1 	2007	6	21	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Absorption; Carotenoids; Chemistry, Physical; Circular Dichroism; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Chemical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Temperature	Georgakopoulou	Sofia
16484226	10.1074/jbc.M510731200	Structural role of (bacterio)chlorophyll ligated in the energetically unfavorable beta-position.	Chlorophyll is attached to apoprotein in diastereotopically distinct ways, by beta- and alpha-ligation. Both the beta- and alpha-ligated chlorophylls of photosystem I are shown to have ample contacts to apoprotein within their proteinaceous binding sites, in particular, at C-13 of the isocyclic ring. The H-bonding patterns for the C-13(1) oxo groups, however, are clearly distinct for the beta-ligated and alpha-ligated chlorophylls. The beta-ligated chlorophylls frequently employ their C-13(1) oxo in H-bonds to neighboring helices and subunits. In contrast, the C-13(1) oxo of alpha-ligated chlorophylls are significantly less involved in H-bonding interactions, particularly to neighboring helices. Remarkably, in the peripheral antenna, light harvesting complex (LH2) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a single mutation in the alpha-subunit, introduced to eliminate H-bonding to the beta-bacteriochlorophyll-B850, which is ligated in the "beta-position," results in significant thermal destabiliza	2006	6	5	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Motifs; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chlorophyll; Circular Dichroism; Cytoplasm; Escherichia coli; Gene Transfer Techniques; Hot Temperature; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Models, Statistical; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Plasmids; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Denaturation; Protein Structure, Secondary; Proteins; Rhodobacter; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Garcia-Martin	Adela
16484180	10.1128/JB.188.5.1691-1700.2006	Differential localization of Mre proteins with PBP2 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, MreB, MreC, MreD, PBP2, and RodA are encoded at the same locus. The localizations of PBP2, MreB, and MreC, which have all been implicated in the synthesis of the peptidoglycan layer, were investigated under different growth conditions to gain insight into the relationships between these proteins. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed that PBP2 localized to specific sites at the midcell of elongating cells under both aerobic and photoheterotrophic conditions. Visualizing PBP2 at different stages of the cell cycle showed that in elongating cells, PBP2 was found predominately at the midcell, with asymmetric foci and bands across the cell. PBP2 remained at midcell until the start of septation, after which it moved to midcell of the daughter cells. Deconvolution and three-dimensional reconstructions suggested that PBP2 forms a partial ring at the midcell of newly divided cells and elongated cells, while in septating cells, partial PBP2 rings were present at one-qu	2006	4	27	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Division; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Slovak	Peter M
16475799	10.1021/bi052175x	Design of a minimal polypeptide unit for bacteriochlorophyll binding and self-assembly based on photosynthetic bacterial light-harvesting proteins.	We introduce LH1beta24, a minimal 24 amino acid polypeptide that binds and assembles bacteriochlorophylls (BChls) in micelles of octyl beta-glucoside (OG) into complexes with spectral properties that resemble those of B820, a universal intermediate in the assembly of native purple bacterial light-harvesting complexes (LHs). LH1beta24 was designed by a survey of sequences and crystal structures of bacterial LH proteins from different organisms combined with currently available information from in vitro reconstitution studies and genetically modified LHs in vivo. We took as a template for the design sphbeta31, a truncated 31 amino acid analogue of the native beta-apoprotein from the core LH complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This peptide self-assembles with BChls to form B820 and, upon cooling and lowering OG concentration, forms red-shifted B850 spectral species that are considered analogous to native LH complexes. We find that LH1beta24 self-assembles with BChl in OG to form homodimer	2006	4	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophylls; Centrifugation; Circular Dichroism; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Protein Engineering; Sequence Alignment; Spectrophotometry; Thermodynamics	Noy	Dror
16475794	10.1021/bi0511538	Triplet-state conformational changes in 15-cis-spheroidene bound to the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 as revealed by time-resolved EPR spectroscopy: strengthened hypothetical mechanism of triplet-energy dissipation.	Time-resolved EPR spectra of 15-cis-spheroidene bound to the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 were recorded at low temperatures. (1) A three-component analysis of the spectral-data matrices by singular-value decomposition followed by global fitting identified the transformation of the triplet carotenoid, (3)Car(I) --&gt; (3)Car(II); during this process, the leak of the triplet population was suggested. A four-component analysis suggested the presence of a representative intermediate, (3)Car(R), that forms a leak channel of the triplet population. (2) A theoretical calculation of the zero-field splitting parameters, |D| and |E|, by the use of a polyene model, showed that the transformation, (3)Car(I) --&gt; (3)Car(R) --&gt; (3)Car(II), accompanies the conformational changes of (0 degrees , 0 degrees , 0 degrees ) --&gt; (+20 degrees , -20 degrees , +20 degrees ) --&gt; (+45 degrees , -40 degrees , +40 degrees ) around the central cis C15=C15', trans C13=C14, and trans 	2006	4	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Carotenoids; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Isomerism; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kakitani	Yoshinori
16473904	10.1529/biophysj.105.077883	Protein-cofactor interactions in bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26: I. Identification of the ENDOR lines associated with the hydrogen bonds to the primary quinone QA*-.	Hydrogen bonds are important in determining the structure and function of biomolecules. Of particular interest are hydrogen bonds to quinones, which play an important role in the bioenergetics of respiration and photosynthesis. In this work we investigated the hydrogen bonds to the two carbonyl oxygens of the semiquinone QA*- in the well-characterized reaction center from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26. We used electron paramagnetic resonance and electron nuclear double resonance techniques at 35 GHz at a temperature of 80 K. The goal of this study was to identify and assign sets of 1H-ENDOR lines to protons hydrogen bonded to each of the two oxygens. This was accomplished by preferentially exchanging the hydrogen bond on one of the oxygens with deuterium while concomitantly monitoring the changes in the amplitudes of the 1H-ENDOR lines. The preferential deuteration of one of the oxygens was made possible by the different 1H --&gt; 2H exchange times of the pr	2007	3	26	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Benzoquinones; Deuterium Exchange Measurement; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Flores	M
16466722	10.1016/j.febslet.2006.01.055	A tyrosine residue deprotonates during oxygen reduction by the caa3 reductase from Rhodothermus marinus.	Heme-copper oxygen reductases catalyze proton translocation across the cellular membrane; this takes place during the reaction of oxygen to water. We demonstrate with attenuated total reflection-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) difference spectroscopy that a tyrosine residue of the oxygen reductase from the thermohalophilic Rhodothermus marinus becomes deprotonated in the transition from the oxidized state to the catalytic intermediate ferryl state P(M). This tyrosine residue is most probably Y256, the helix VI tyrosine residue proposed to substitute for the D-channel glutamic acid that is absent in this enzyme. Comparison with the mitochondrial like oxygen reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides suggests that proton transfer from a strategically situated donor to the active site is a crucial step in the reaction mechanism of oxygen reductases.	2006	4	17	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Binding Sites; Catalysis; Cytochromes a3; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodothermus; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Tyrosine	Pereira	Manuela M
16440119		Identification of two gene loci involved in poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate production in Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1.	Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), biopolyesters of hydroxyl fatty acids, are synthesized and deposited as cytoplasmic inclusions in many bacteria. We isolated a poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB)-producing bacterium designated Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1. To characterize PHB biosynthesis in this organism, we isolated the genes encoding proteins involved in PHB metabolism. The genes responsible for the synthesis, accumulation, and degradation of PHB in R. sphaeroides FJ1 were cloned and characterized. Genes involved in the biosynthesis and metabolism of PHB were found to be located in 2 different loci in the genome of R. sphaeroides FJ1. One locus contained genes encoding PHB depolymerase (phbZ), PHB synthase (phbC), phasin (phbP) and the regulator protein (phbR). The other locus contained the beta-ketothiolase gene (phbA) and the acetoactyl-CoA reductase gene (phbB). The phbZ gene was orientated in an opposite direction to that of phbC, phbP and phbR genes that were located in the same cluste	2006	3	30	J Microbiol Immunol Infect	Journal of microbiology, immunology, and infection = Wei mian yu gan ran za zhi	Acyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Culture Media; Fresh Water; Hydroxybutyrates; Operon; Plasmids; Polyesters; Prohibitins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Waste Disposal, Fluid	Yang	Mei Kwei
16401066	10.1021/bi0515725	A time-resolved iron-specific X-ray absorption experiment yields no evidence for an Fe2+ --&gt; Fe3+ transition during QA- --&gt; QB electron transfer in the photosynthetic reaction center.	Previous time-resolved FTIR measurements suggested the involvement of an intermediary component in the electron transfer step Q(A)- --&gt; Q(B) in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides [Remy and Gerwert (2003) Nat. Struct. Biol. 10, 637]. By a kinetic X-ray absorption experiment at the Fe K-edge we investigated whether oxidation occurs at the ferric non-heme iron located between the two quinones. In isolated reaction centers with a high content of functional Q(B), at a time resolution of 30 micros and at room temperature, no evidence for transient oxidation of Fe was obtained. However, small X-ray transients occurred, in a similar micro- to millisecond time range as in the IR experiments, which may point to changes in the Fe ligand environment due to the charges on Q(A)- and Q(B)-. In addition, VIS measurements agree with the IR data and do not exclude an intermediate in the Q(A)- --&gt; Q(B) transition.	2006	3	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport; Ferric Compounds; Ferrous Compounds; Manganese; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Ubiquinone; X-Rays	Hermes	Sabine
16399835	10.1529/biophysj.105.075895	Comparative study of spectral flexibilities of bacterial light-harvesting complexes: structural implications.	This work presents a comparative study of the frequencies of spectral jumping of individual light-harvesting complexes of six different types: LH2 of Rhodopseudomonas acidophila, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Rhodospirillum molischianum; LH1 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides; and two "domain swap mutants" of LH2 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: PACLH1 and PACLH2mol, in which the alpha-polypeptide C-terminus is exchanged with the corresponding sequence from LH1 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides or LH2 of Rhodospirillum molischianum, respectively. The quasistable states of fluorescence peak wavelength that were previously observed for the LH2 of Rps. acidophila were confirmed for other species. We also observed occurrences of extremely blue-shifted spectra, which were associated with reversible bleaching of one of the chromophore rings. Different jumping behavior is observed for single complexes of different types investigated with the same equivalent excitation intensity. The differences in spectral diffus	2006	6	30	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Biophysics; Carbon; Hydrogen Bonding; Ions; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Magnesium; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodospirillum; Species Specificity; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Time Factors	Rutkauskas	Danielis
16399834	10.1529/biophysj.105.075903	Spectral trends in the fluorescence of single bacterial light-harvesting complexes: experiments and modified redfield simulations.	In this work we present and discuss the single-molecule fluorescence spectra of a variety of species of light-harvesting complexes: LH2 of Rhodopseudomonas acidophila, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Rhodospirillum molischianum and LH1 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The emission spectrum of these complexes varies as a function of time as was described in earlier work. For each type of complex, we observe a pronounced and well-reproducible characteristic relationship between the fluorescence spectral parameters of the peak wavelength, width, and asymmetry. This dependence for the LH2 complexes can be quantitatively explained on the basis of a disordered exciton model by varying the static disorder and phonon coupling parameters. In addition, a correlation of the pigment site energies has to be assumed to interpret the behavior of the LH1 complex.	2006	6	30	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Biophysics; Computer Simulation; Diffusion; Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Magnesium; Mutation; Normal Distribution; Pigments, Biological; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodospirillum; Species Specificity; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Time Factors	Rutkauskas	Danielis
16388580	10.1021/bi051367p	On the mechanism of activation of the BLUF domain of AppA.	AppA, a transcriptional antirepressor, regulates the steady expression of photosynthesis genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides in response to high-intensity blue light and to redox signals. Its blue-light sensing is mediated by an N-terminal BLUF domain, a member of a novel flavin fold. The photocycle of this domain (AppA(5-125)) includes formation of a slightly red-shifted long-lived signaling state, which is formed directly from the singlet excited state of the flavin on a subnanosecond time scale [Gauden et al. (2005) Biochemistry 44, 3653-3662]. The red shift of the absorption spectrum of this signaling state has been attributed to a rearrangement of its hydrogen-bonding interactions with the surrounding apoprotein. In this study we have characterized an AppA mutant with an altered aromatic amino acid: W104F. This mutant exhibits an increased lifetime of the singlet excited state of the flavin chromophore. Most strikingly, however, it shows a 1.5-fold increase in its quantum yield of si	2006	4	13	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acids, Aromatic; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Hydrogen Bonding; Imidazoles; Light; Molecular Structure; Photosynthesis; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Repressor Proteins; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Thermodynamics; Transcription Factors	Laan	Wouter
16385070	10.1128/JB.188.2.801-804.2006	Analysis of hemF gene function and expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The hemF gene of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is predicted to code for an oxygen-dependent coproporphyrinogen III oxidase. We found that a HemF- mutant strain is unable to grow under aerobic conditions. We also determined that hemF expression is controlled by oxygen, which is mediated, at least in part, by the response regulatory protein PrrA.	2006	2	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Coproporphyrinogen Oxidase; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Oxygen; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Zeilstra-Ryalls	Jill H
16323221	10.1002/cbic.200500270	The solution structure of the AppA BLUF domain: insight into the mechanism of light-induced signaling.	The transcriptional antirepressor AppA from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides senses both the light climate and the intracellular redox state. Under aerobic conditions in the dark, AppA binds to and thereby blocks the function of PpsR, a transcriptional repressor. Absorption of a blue photon dissociates AppA from PpsR and allows the latter to repress photosynthesis gene expression. The N terminus of AppA contains sequence homology to flavin-containing photoreceptors that belong to the BLUF family. Structural and chemical aspects of signal transduction mediated by AppA are still largely unknown. Here we present NMR studies of the N-terminal flavin-binding BLUF domain of AppA. Its solution structure adopts an alpha/beta-sandwich fold with a beta alpha beta beta alpha beta beta topology, which represents a new flavin-binding fold. Considerable disorder is observed for residues near the chromophore due to conformational exchange. This disorder is observed both in the dar	2006	4	6	Chembiochem	Chembiochem : a European journal of chemical biology	Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Flavoproteins; Light; Models, Molecular; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Solutions	Grinstead	Jeffrey S
21817532	10.1088/0957-4484/19/02/025101	Directed assembly of functional light harvesting antenna complexes onto chemically patterned surfaces.	We report the directed assembly of the photosynthetic membrane proteins LH1 and LH2 isolated from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides onto chemically patterned substrates. Nanoimprint lithography was used to pattern discrete regions of amino-..and fluoro-terminated or poly(ethylene glycol) self-assembled monolayers onto a glass substrate. Densely packed layers of assembled protein complexes were observed with atomic force microscopy. The protein complexes attached selectively to the amino-terminated regions by electrostatic interactions. Spectral images generated with a hybrid scanning probe and fluorescence microscope confirmed that the patterned proteins retained their native optical signatures.	2012	10	2	Nanotechnology	Nanotechnology	NA	Escalante	Maryana
18165868	10.1007/s10529-007-9627-8	Site-directed mutagenesis of substrate binding sites of azoreductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Comparison of three-dimensional structures of flavin-dependent azoreductases revealed two conserved loops around the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) cofactor. Tyr74, His75 and Lys109 in the two loops of azoreductase AZR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were replaced with Trp, Asn and Ala/His by site-directed mutagenesis, respectively. The optimal pH values of K109H and H75N were pH 6, and those of K109A and Y74W were pH 9. The optimal temperature (30 degrees C) was not affected by mutation. Positively charged residues at position 109 is critical for the binding of methyl red. K109 might only be involved in the binding of the 2'-phosphate group of NADPH and have no effect on the binding of NADH. Y74W and H75N mutations decreased the binding of methyl red/nitrofurazone and had no affect on the binding of NADPH.	2008	8	20	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Amino Acid Sequence; Azo Compounds; Binding Sites; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; NADP; Nitroreductases; Plasmids; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Temperature	Liu	Guangfei
18163156	10.1007/BF03166246	Light induced EPR spectra of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 80K: Evidence for reduction of Q(B) by B-branch electron transfer in native reaction centers.	Photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides capture solar energy by electron transfer from primary donor, D, to quinone acceptor, Q(B,) through the active A-branch of electron acceptors, but not the inactive B-branch. The light induced EPR spectrum from native RCs that had Fe(2+) replaced by Zn(2+) was investigated at cryogenic temperature (80K, 35 GHz). In addition to the light induced signal due to formation of D(+...)Q(A) (-...) observed previously, a small fraction (~5%) of the signal displayed very different characteristics: (1) The signal was absent in RCs in which the Q(B) was displaced by the inhibitor stigmatellin. (2) Its decay time (..=6 s) was the same as observed for D(+...)Q(B) (-...) in mutant RCs lacking Q(A,) which is significantly slower than for D(+...)Q(A) (-...) (..=30 ms). (3) Its EPR spectrum was identical to that of D(+...)Q(B) (-...). (4) The quantum efficiency for forming the major component of the signal was the same as that found for m	2020	9	29	Appl Magn Reson	Applied magnetic resonance	NA	Paddock	M L
18079120	10.1074/jbc.M707774200	Superoxide generation by chlorophyllide a reductase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Chlorophyllide a reductase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which were reconstituted with the purified subunits of BchX, BchY, and BchZ, reduced ring B of chlorophyllide a using NADH under anaerobic conditions. Interestingly, suppressor mutations rescuing the inability of R. sphaeroides Fe-SOD mutant to grow in succinate-based minimal medium were predominantly mapped to BchZ subunit of chlorophyllide a reductase. The enzyme is labile in the presence of O(2). However, it generates superoxide at low O(2). The enzymes reconstituted with BchX, BchY, and the mutein subunit of BchZ from suppressor mutants showed less activity not only for chlorophyllide a reduction but also for superoxide generation compared with the enzyme reconstituted with the wild-type subunits. BchX, which contains FMN, and BchY are iron-sulfur proteins, whereas BchZ is a hemoprotein containing b-type heme. Neither chlorophyllide a reduction nor superoxide generation was observed with the enzyme reconstituted with the wild-t	2008	5	5	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Base Sequence; Culture Media; DNA Primers; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Mutagenesis; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-CH Group Donors; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides	Kim	Eui-Jin
18073116	10.1016/j.str.2007.09.026	Structural basis for the PufX-mediated dimerization of bacterial photosynthetic core complexes.	In Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides, the subunit PufX is involved in the dimeric organization of the core complex. Here, we report the 3D reconstruction at 12 A by cryoelectron microscopy of the core complex of Rba. veldkampii, a complex of approximately 300 kDa without symmetry. The core complex is monomeric and constituted by a light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1) ring surrounding a uniquely oriented reaction center (RC). The LH1 consists of 15 resolved alpha/beta heterodimers and is interrupted. Within the opening, PufX polypeptide is assigned at a position facing the Q(B) site of the RC. This core complex is different from a dissociated dimer of the core complex of Rba. sphaeroides revealing that PufX in Rba. veldkampii is unable to dimerize. The absence in PufX of Rba. veldkampii of a G(31)XXXG(35) dimerization motif highlights the transmembrane interactions between PufX subunits involved in the dimerization of the core complexes of Rhodobacter species.	2008	2	15	Structure	Structure (London, England : 1993)	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Dimerization; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Busselez	Johan
18069858	10.1021/bi701859s	Impact of mutations on the midpoint potential of the [4Fe-4S]+1,+2 cluster and on catalytic activity in electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO).	Electron-transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO) is an iron-sulfur flavoprotein that accepts electrons from electron-transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and reduces ubiquinone from the Q-pool. ETF-QO contains a single [4Fe-4S]2+,1+ cluster and one equivalent of FAD, which are diamagnetic in the isolated oxidized enzyme and can be reduced to paramagnetic forms by enzymatic donors or dithionite. Mutations were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis of amino acids in the vicinity of the iron-sulfur cluster of Rhodobacter sphaeroides ETF-QO. Y501 and T525 are equivalent to Y533 and T558 in the porcine ETF-QO. In the porcine protein, these residues are within hydrogen-bonding distance of the Sgamma of the cysteine ligands to the iron-sulfur cluster. Y501F, T525A, and Y501F/T525A substitutions were made to determine the effects on midpoint potential, activity, and EPR spectral properties of the cluster. The integrity of the mutated proteins was confirmed by optical spectra, EPR g-v	2008	2	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Catalysis; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Potentiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Usselman	Robert J
18065535	10.1128/JB.01621-07	Mesaconyl-coenzyme A hydratase, a new enzyme of two central carbon metabolic pathways in bacteria.	The coenzyme A (CoA)-activated C5-dicarboxylic acids mesaconyl-CoA and beta-methylmalyl-CoA play roles in two as yet not completely resolved central carbon metabolic pathways in bacteria. First, these compounds are intermediates in the 3-hydroxypropionate cycle for autotrophic CO2 fixation in Chloroflexus aurantiacus, a phototrophic green nonsulfur bacterium. Second, mesaconyl-CoA and beta-methylmalyl-CoA are intermediates in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway for acetate assimilation in various bacteria, e.g., in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Methylobacterium extorquens, and Streptomyces species. In both cases, mesaconyl-CoA hydratase was postulated to catalyze the interconversion of mesaconyl-CoA and beta-methylmalyl-CoA. The putative genes coding for this enzyme in C. aurantiacus and R. sphaeroides were cloned and heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, and the proteins were purified and studied. The recombinant homodimeric 80-kDa proteins catalyzed the reversible dehydration of erythro-	2008	7	2	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Acyl Coenzyme A; Bacterial Proteins; Chloroflexus; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Cloning, Molecular; Coenzyme A; Escherichia coli; Hydro-Lyases; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Methylobacterium extorquens; Models, Biological; Molecular Structure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Streptomyces; Substrate Specificity	Zarzycki	Jan
18062242		5-aminolevulinic acid biosynthesis in Escherichia coli coexpressing NADP-dependent malic enzyme and 5-aminolevulinate synthase.	5-aminolevulinate (ALA) synthase (E.C. 2.3.1.37), which mediates the pyridoxal phosphate-dependent condensation of glycine and succinyl-CoA, encoded by the Rhodobacter sphaeroides hemA gene, enables Escherichia coli strains to produce ALA at a low level. To study the effect of the enhanced C4 metabolism of E. coli on ALA biosynthesis, NADP-dependent malic enzyme (maeB, E.C. 1.1.1.40) was coexpressed with ALA synthase in E. coli. The concentration of ALA was two times greater in cells coexpressing maeB and hemA than in cells expressing hemA alone under anaerobic conditions with medium containing glucose and glycine. Enhanced ALA synthase activity via coupled expression of hemA and maeB may lead to metabolic engineering of E. coli capable of large-scale ALA production.	2008	3	20	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Malate Dehydrogenase	Shin	Jeong-Ah
18052347	10.1021/bi701643a	Structural elements involved in proton translocation by cytochrome c oxidase as revealed by backbone amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange of the E286H mutant.	Cytochrome c oxidase is the terminal electron acceptor in the respiratory chains of aerobic organisms and energetically couples the reduction of oxygen to water to proton pumping across the membrane. The mechanisms of proton uptake, gating, and pumping have yet to be completely elucidated at the molecular level for these enzymes. For Rhodobacter sphaeroides CytcO (cytochrome aa3), it appears as though the E286 side chain of subunit I is a branching point from which protons are shuttled either to the catalytic site for O2 reduction or to the acceptor site for pumped protons. Amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry was used to investigate how mutation of this key branching residue to histidine (E286H) affects the structures and dynamics of four redox intermediate states. A functional characterization of this mutant reveals that E286H CytcO retains approximately 1% steady-state activity that is uncoupled from proton pumping and that proton transfer from H286 is significantly s	2008	2	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amides; Deuterium; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Secondary; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Busenlehner	Laura S
18052250	10.1021/ja075065h	Structure of the charge separated state P865(+)Q(A)- in the photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by quantum beat oscillations and high-field electron paramagnetic resonance: evidence for light-induced Q(A)- reorientation.	The structure of the secondary radical pair, P865(+)Q(A)-, in fully deuterated and Zn-substituted reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 has been determined by high-time resolution and high-field electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). A computer analysis of quantum beat oscillations, observed in a two-dimensional Q-band (34 GHz) EPR experiment, provides the orientation of the various magnetic tensors of P865(+)Q(A)- with respect to a magnetic reference frame. The orientation of the g-tensor of P865(+) in an external reference system is adapted from a single-crystal W-band (95 GHz) EPR study [Klette, R.; T..rring, J. T.; Plato, M.; M..bius, K.; B..nigk, B.; Lubitz, W. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 2015-2020]. Thus, we obtain the three-dimensional structure of the charge separated state P865(+)Q(A)- on a nanosecond time scale after light-induced charge separation. Comparison with crystallographic data reveals that the position of the quinone is essentially	2008	1	28	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Heinen	Ulrich
18052234	10.1021/bi7004416	Probing the flexibility of the bacterial reaction center: the wild-type protein is more rigid than two site-specific mutants.	Experimental and theoretical studies have stressed the importance of flexibility for protein function. However, more local studies of protein dynamics, using temperature factors from crystallographic data or elastic models of protein mechanics, suggest that active sites are among the most rigid parts of proteins. We have used quasielastic neutron scattering to study the native reaction center protein from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, over a temperature range of 4-260 K, in parallel with two nonfunctional mutants both carrying the mutations L212Glu/L213Asp --&gt; Ala/Ala (one mutant carrying, in addition, the M249Ala --&gt; Tyr mutation). The so-called dynamical transition temperature, Td, remains the same for the three proteins around 230 K. Below Td the mean square displacement, u2, and the dynamical structure factor, S(Q,omega), as measured respectively by backscattering and time-of-flight techniques are identical. However, we report that above Td, where anharmonicit	2008	2	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Temperature	Sacquin-Mora	Sophie
18052205	10.1021/bi701593r	Low-temperature pulsed EPR study at 34 GHz of the triplet states of the primary electron Donor P865 and the carotenoid in native and mutant bacterial reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The photosynthetic charge separation in bacterial reaction centers occurs predominantly along one of two nearly symmetric branches of cofactors. Low-temperature EPR spectra of the triplet states of the chlorophyll and carotenoid pigments in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26.1, 2.4.1 and two double-mutants GD(M203)/AW(M260) and LH(M214)/AW(M260) have been recorded at 34 GHz to investigate the relative activities of the "A" and "B" branches. The triplet states are found to derive from radical pair and intersystem crossing mechanisms, and the rates of formation are anisotropic. The former mechanism is operative for Rb. sphaeroides R-26.1, 2.4.1, and mutant GD(M203)/AW(M260) and indicates that A-branch charge separation proceeds at temperatures down to 10 K. The latter mechanism, derived from the spin polarization and operative for mutant LH(M214)/AW(M260), indicates that no long-lived radical pairs are formed upon direct excitation of the primary donor and that virtually	2008	2	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electrons; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Marchanka	Aliaksandr
18051772		Phosphatidylcholine is required for the efficient formation of photosynthetic membrane and B800-850 light-harvesting complex in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	No phosphatidylcholine (PC) was detected in the membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides pmtA mutant (PmtA1) lacking phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) N-methyltransferase, whereas PE in the mutant was increased up to the mole % comparable to the combined level of PE and PC of wild type. Neither the fatty acid composition nor the fluidity of membrane was altered by pmtA mutation. Consistently, aerobic and photoheterotrophic growth of PmtA1 were not different from wild type. However, PmtA1 showed an extended lag phase (15 h) after the growth transition from aerobic to photoheterotrophic conditions, indicating the PC requirement for the efficient formation of intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM). Interestingly, the B800-850 complex of PmtA1 was decreased more than twofold in comparison with wild type, whereas the level of the B875 complex comprising the fixed photosynthetic unit was not changed. Since puc expression is not affected by pmtA mutation, PC appears to be required for the proper formation of	2008	1	3	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Fluidity; Membrane Lipids; Methyltransferases; Phosphatidylcholines; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kim	Eui-Jin
18049908	10.1007/s11120-007-9280-z	Molecular assembly of Zn porphyrin complexes using synthetic light-harvesting model polypeptides.	Synthetic single alpha-helix hydrophobic polypeptides, which have similar amino acid sequences to the hydrophobic core in the native light-harvesting 1-beta polypeptide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, formed Zn porphyrin complexes on a gold electrode, as well as in n-octyl-beta-glucoside micelles: this process is dependent on the structure of the pigments and the polypeptides. Interestingly, an enhanced photoelectric current was observed when Zn mesoporphyrin monomer complexed with the synthetic light-harvesting model polypeptide in an alpha-helical configuration was assembled with a defined orientation onto the electrode. Analog of these light-harvesting model complexes are also useful in providing insights into the effect of polypeptide structure on the formation of light-harvesting complexes on and off electrodes.	2009	5	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Amino Acid Sequence; Electrodes; Gold; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Metalloporphyrins; Molecular Sequence Data; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrum Analysis	Ochiai	Tsuyoshi
19192623		Confinement of cardiolipin and ubiquinone in reaction-center core complexes purified from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The core complex formed by the reaction center and the light harvesting complex 1 (RC-LH1) was purified from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We analyzed the lipid and ubiquinone (UQ) complements copurifying with the RC-LH1 complex and with the peripheral antenna (LH2). In RC-LH1 UQ was almost ten times more concentrated than in the LH2 and in the native membranes from which the complexes were extracted. The fractional lipid composition of the RC-LH1 complex also differed from that of the intact membranes, exhibiting a marked increase in cardiolipin concentration. We propose that the confinement of cardiolipin and ubiquinone observed within the RC-LH1 complex, plays a role in vivo in the stabilization of the light-induced charge separation catalyzed by the RC.	2009	3	31	Ital J Biochem	The Italian journal of biochemistry	Cardiolipins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Dezi	Manuela
18045498	10.1186/1471-2180-7-106	Phylogenomics and signature proteins for the alpha proteobacteria and its main groups.	Alpha proteobacteria are one of the largest and most extensively studied groups within bacteria. However, for these bacteria as a whole and for all of its major subgroups (viz. Rhizobiales, Rhodobacterales, Rhodospirillales, Rickettsiales, Sphingomonadales and Caulobacterales), very few or no distinctive molecular or biochemical characteristics are known. We have carried out comprehensive phylogenomic analyses by means of Blastp and PSI-Blast searches on the open reading frames in the genomes of several alpha-proteobacteria (viz. Bradyrhizobium japonicum, Brucella suis, Caulobacter crescentus, Gluconobacter oxydans, Mesorhizobium loti, Nitrobacter winogradskyi, Novosphingobium aromaticivorans, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, Silicibacter sp. TM1040, Rhodospirillum rubrum and Wolbachia (Drosophila) endosymbiont). These studies have identified several proteins that are distinctive characteristics of all alpha-proteobacteria, as well as numerous proteins that are unique repertoires of all 	2008	2	28	BMC Microbiol	BMC microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Evolution, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Phylogeny; Sequence Alignment	Gupta	Radhey S
18039651	10.1074/jbc.M708608200	Inhibitor-complexed structures of the cytochrome bc1 from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The cytochrome bc(1) complex (bc(1)) is a major contributor to the proton motive force across the membrane by coupling electron transfer to proton translocation. The crystal structures of wild type and mutant bc(1) complexes from the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rsbc(1)), stabilized with the quinol oxidation (Q(P)) site inhibitor stigmatellin alone or in combination with the quinone reduction (Q(N)) site inhibitor antimycin, were determined. The high quality electron density permitted assignments of a new metal-binding site to the cytochrome c(1) subunit and a number of lipid and detergent molecules. Structural differences between Rsbc(1) and its mitochondrial counterparts are mostly extra membranous and provide a basis for understanding the function of the predominantly longer sequences in the bacterial subunits. Functional implications for the bc(1) complex are derived from analyses of 10 independent molecules in various crystal forms and from comparisons 	2008	4	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Antimycin A; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex III; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Multiprotein Complexes; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Polyenes; Protein Subunits; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Esser	Lothar
18037314	10.1016/j.jmr.2007.11.002	Electron spin relaxation enhancement measurements of interspin distances in human, porcine, and Rhodobacter electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO).	Electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO) is a membrane-bound electron transfer protein that links primary flavoprotein dehydrogenases with the main respiratory chain. Human, porcine, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides ETF-QO each contain a single [4Fe-4S](2+,1+) cluster and one equivalent of FAD, which are diamagnetic in the isolated enzyme and become paramagnetic on reduction with the enzymatic electron donor or with dithionite. The anionic flavin semiquinone can be reduced further to diamagnetic hydroquinone. The redox potentials for the three redox couples are so similar that it is not possible to poise the proteins in a state where both the [4Fe-4S](+) cluster and the flavoquinone are fully in the paramagnetic form. Inversion recovery was used to measure the electron spin-lattice relaxation rates for the [4Fe-4S](+) between 8 and 18K and for semiquinone between 25 and 65K. At higher temperatures the spin-lattice relaxation rates for the [4Fe-4S](+) were calculated	2008	4	10	J Magn Reson	Journal of magnetic resonance (San Diego, Calif. : 1997)	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Humans; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Liver; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Swine; Ubiquinone	Fielding	Alistair J
18036346	10.1016/j.febslet.2007.11.032	Substitution of isoleucine L177 by histidine in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center results in the covalent binding of PA bacteriochlorophyll to the L subunit.	In this work, we report the unique case of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) - protein covalent attachment in a photosynthetic membrane complex caused by a single mutation. The isoleucine L177 was substituted by histidine in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Pigment analysis revealed that one BChl molecule was missing in the acetone-methanol extract of the I(L177)H RCs. SDS-PAGE demonstrated that this BChl molecule could not be extracted with organic solvents apparently because of its stable covalent attachment to the mutant RC L-subunit. Our data indicate that the attached bacteriochlorophyll is one of the special pair BChls, P(A). The chemical nature of this covalent interaction remains to be identified.	2008	3	5	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Histidine; Isoleucine; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Protein Binding; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature	Fufina	Tatiana Y
18034796	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2007.06017.x	Mutation of a single residue, beta-glutamate-20, alters protein-lipid interactions of light harvesting complex II.	It is well established that assembly of the peripheral antenna complex, LH2, is required for proper photosynthetic membrane biogenesis in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The underlying interactions are, as yet, not understood. Here we examined the relationship between the morphology of the photosynthetic membrane and the lipid-protein interactions at the LH2-lipid interface. The non-bilayer lipid, phosphatidylethanolamine, is shown to be highly enriched in the boundary lipid phase of LH2. Sequence alignments indicate a putative lipid binding site, which includes beta-glutamate-20 and the adjacent carotenoid end group. Replacement of beta-glutamate-20 with alanine results in significant reduction of phosphatidylethanolamine and concomitant raise in phosphatidylcholine in the boundary lipid phase of LH2 without altering the lipid composition of the bulk phase. The morphology of the LH2 housing membrane is, however, unaffected by the amino acid replacement. In contrast, simu	2008	4	28	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Cell Membrane; Glutamates; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mass Spectrometry; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation, Missense; Phospholipids; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Kwa	Lee Gyan
18031038	10.1021/ja074074n	Ultrafast structural dynamics in BLUF domains: transient infrared spectroscopy of AppA and its mutants.	The structural dynamics following photoexcitation of a photosensing BLUF (blue light sensing using FAD) domain protein have been investigated by ultrafast transient infrared spectroscopy. Specifically, the transcriptional antirepressor AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied in the light and dark adapted forms and in photoactive and inactive mutants W104F and Q63L. A transient absorption has been observed at 1666 cm(-1) which is a marker mode for the photoactive state of the protein. This instantaneously formed transient is tentatively assigned to a vibrational mode of a protein residue modified through its interaction with the excited state of the chromophore. A plausible candidate consistent with the mutant studies is the carbonyl stretch of the Q63 amide side chain. These results suggest that modification of the strength of protein chromophore H-bonded interactions is the primary step in the BLUF domain photocycle. No new species were observed to be formed during the firs	2008	1	23	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Bacterial Proteins; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Kinetics; Light; Molecular Structure; Mutation; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Time Factors	Stelling	Allison L
18027981	10.1021/bi701424d	A new ruthenium complex to study single-electron reduction of the pulsed O(H) state of detergent-solubilized cytochrome oxidase.	The first step in the catalytic cycle of cytochrome oxidase, the one-electron reduction of the fully oxidized enzyme, was investigated using a new photoactive binuclear ruthenium complex, [Ru(bipyrazine)2]2(quaterpyridine), (Ru2Z). The aim of the work was to examine differences in the redox kinetics resulting from pulsing the oxidase (i.e., fully reducing the enzyme followed by reoxidation) just prior to photoreduction. Recent reports indicate transient changes in the redox behavior of the metal centers upon pulsing. The new photoreductant has a large quantum yield, allowing the kinetics data to be acquired in a single flash. The net charge of +4 on Ru2Z allows it to bind electrostatically near CuA in subunit II of cytochrome oxidase. The photoexcited state Ru(II*) of Ru2Z is reduced to Ru(I) by the sacrificial electron donor aniline, and Ru(I) then reduces CuA with yields up to 60%. A stopped-flow-flash technique was used to form the pulsed state of cytochrome oxidase (the "OH" state)	2008	5	30	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Cattle; Detergents; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Ruthenium; Solubility	Brand	Sue Ellen
17985885	10.1021/ja073658m	Directed formation of micro- and nanoscale patterns of functional light-harvesting LH2 complexes.	The precision placement of the desired protein components on a suitable substrate is an essential prelude to any hybrid "biochip" device, but a second and equally important condition must also be met: the retention of full biological activity. Here we demonstrate the selective binding of an optically active membrane protein, the light-harvesting LH2 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, to patterned self-assembled monolayers at the micron scale and the fabrication of nanometer-scale patterns of these molecules using near-field photolithographic methods. In contrast to plasma proteins, which are reversibly adsorbed on many surfaces, the LH2 complex is readily patterned simply by spatial control of surface polarity. Near-field photolithography has yielded rows of light-harvesting complexes only 98 nm wide. Retention of the native optical properties of patterned LH2 molecules was demonstrated using in situ fluorescence emission spectroscopy.	2008	1	7	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Binding Sites; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Nanostructures; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Surface Plasmon Resonance	Reynolds	Nicholas P
17967555	10.1016/j.jmr.2007.10.001	Photo-CIDNP MAS NMR beyond the T1 limit by fast cycles of polarization extinction and polarization generation.	In nanosecond-laser flash photo-CIDNP MAS NMR, polarization generation (PG) proceeds much faster than longitudinal spin relaxation. With a nanosecond-laser setup linked to the NMR console the repetition time of the experiment is then limited by the minimum recycle delay of the NMR spectrometer and the maximum repetition rate of laser flashes. These limits can only be reached if polarization left after the NMR experiment is completely canceled before the next laser flash. We introduce a presaturation pulse sequence, based on three (pi/2) (13)C pulses and optimized timing and phase cycling that allows for such efficient polarization extinction (PE). The technique is demonstrated on selectively isotope labeled bacterial reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides wildtype (WT). High-quality (13)C photo-CIDNP MAS NMR spectra are obtained using cycle rates up to 4 Hz. The PE-PG strategy proposed here provides a general experimental scheme for reduction of measurement time in mag	2008	4	10	J Magn Reson	Journal of magnetic resonance (San Diego, Calif. : 1997)	Carbon Isotopes; Equipment Design; Histidine; Lasers; Light; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Daviso	Eugenio
17965166	10.1128/JB.01375-07	Transcriptome dynamics during the transition from anaerobic photosynthesis to aerobic respiration in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is a facultative photosynthetic anaerobe that grows by anoxygenic photosynthesis under anaerobic-light conditions. Changes in energy generation pathways under photosynthetic and aerobic respiratory conditions are primarily controlled by oxygen tensions. In this study, we performed time series microarray analyses to investigate transcriptome dynamics during the transition from anaerobic photosynthesis to aerobic respiration. Major changes in gene expression profiles occurred in the initial 15 min after the shift from anaerobic-light to aerobic-dark conditions, with changes continuing to occur up to 4 hours postshift. Those genes whose expression levels changed significantly during the time series were grouped into three major classes by clustering analysis. Class I contained genes, such as that for the aa3 cytochrome oxidase, whose expression levels increased after the shift. Class II contained genes, such as those for the photosynthetic apparatus and Calvi	2008	1	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Kinetics; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxygen Consumption; Photosynthesis; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Arai	Hiroyuki
17956942	10.1177/0968051907083193	The equine TLR4/MD-2 complex mediates recognition of lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides as an agonist.	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) antagonists inhibit the response of inflammatory cells to LPS, presumably by competitive inhibition, and may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of endotoxemia and sepsis. The inhibitory effects of some LPS antagonists are restricted to certain host species, however, as the same molecules can have significant endotoxic activity in other species. This species-specific recognition appears to be mediated by Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and/or MD-2. We have shown previously that LPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides ( RsLPS) is an LPS antagonist in human cells but an agonist (or LPS mimetic) in equine cells. In the present study, HEK293 cells were transfected with combinations of human and equine CD14, TLR4 and MD-2, and incubated with either RsLPS or with LPS from Escherichia coli as an endotoxin control. NF-kappaB activation was measured in a dual luciferase assay as an indicator of cellular activation. Our results indicate that E. colic LPS activated NF-kappaB in	2008	3	12	J Endotoxin Res	Journal of endotoxin research	Animals; Cell Line; Horses; Humans; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Microtubule-Associated Proteins; NF-kappa B; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Transcription Factors; Transfection	Lohmann	Katharina L
17951070	10.1016/j.jsb.2007.09.003	A high-throughput strategy to screen 2D crystallization trials of membrane proteins.	Electron microscopy of two-dimensional (2D) crystals has demonstrated potential for structure determination of membrane proteins. Technical limitations in large-scale crystallization screens have, however, prevented a major breakthrough in the routine application of this technology. Dialysis is generally used for detergent removal and reconstitution of the protein into a lipid bilayer, and devices for testing numerous conditions in parallel are not readily available. Furthermore, the small size of resulting 2D crystals requires electron microscopy to evaluate the results and automation of the necessary steps is essential to achieve a reasonable throughput. We have designed a crystallization block, using standard microplate dimensions, by which 96 unique samples can be dialyzed simultaneously against 96 different buffers and have demonstrated that the rate of detergent dialysis is comparable to those obtained with conventional dialysis devices. A liquid-handling robot was employed to se	2008	5	8	J Struct Biol	Journal of structural biology	Archaeoglobus fulgidus; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Crystallography; Detergents; Dialysis; Equipment Design; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Negative Staining; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Robotics; Specimen Handling	Vink	Martin
17936717	10.1016/j.bbabio.2007.08.004	Redox potential of the non-heme iron complex in bacterial photosynthetic reaction center.	In bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers (bRC), the electron is transferred from the special pair (P) via accessory bacteriochlorophyll (B(A)), bacteriopheopytin (H(A)), the primary quinone (Q(A)) to the secondary quinone (Q(B)). Although the non-heme iron complex (Fe complex) is located between Q(A) and Q(B), it was generally supposed not to be redox-active. Involvement of the Fe complex in electron transfer (ET) was proposed in recent FTIR studies [A. Remy and K. Gerwert, Coupling of light-induced electron transfer to proton uptake in photosynthesis, Nat. Struct. Biol. 10 (2003) 637-644]. However, other FTIR studies resulted in opposite results [J. Breton, Steady-state FTIR spectra of the photoreduction of Q(A) and Q(B) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers provide evidence against the presence of a proposed transient electron acceptor X between the two quinones, Biochemistry 46 (2007) 4459-4465]. In this study, we calculated redox potentials of Q(A/B) (E(m)(Q(A/B))) and th	2007	12	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Nonheme Iron Proteins; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ishikita	Hiroshi
17933338	10.1134/s1607672907040138	Electron phototransfer between photosynthetic reaction centers of the bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and semiconductor mesoporous tiO2 films.	NA	2007	11	30	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Nanostructures; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porosity; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Semiconductors; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Titanium	Lukashev	E P
17929941	10.1021/bi700728g	Flash-photolysis of fully reduced and mixed-valence CO-bound Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase: heme spectral shifts.	Conformational changes, internal electron transfer, and CO rebinding processes in cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reduced to different degrees were investigated. The reactions were followed using a gated optical spectrometric multichannel analyzer. Light-induced difference spectra, recorded in the 350-700 nm region over the 100 ns to 1 s time interval, were analyzed by singular value decomposition and global exponential fitting. The photolyzed fully reduced enzyme showed two relaxations, approximately 1 and 190 mus, prior to the 20 ms CO rebinding process. Intramolecular electron transfer was monitored following photolysis of the mixed-valence CO-bound enzyme. The analysis revealed 1.1 micros, 2.4 micros, 31 micros, 68 ms, and 240 ms apparent lifetimes, the first three of which are attributed to electron transfer from heme a3 to heme a with contribution from a relaxation process at the heme a3 site. Spectral changes associated with the microsecond processes are consis	2008	1	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Carbon Monoxide; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Oxidation-Reduction; Photolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Time Factors	Szundi	Istvan
17927750	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03580.x	Development of a solar-powered microbial fuel cell.	To understand factors that impact solar-powered electricity generation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides in a single-chamber microbial fuel cell (MFC). The MFC used submerged platinum-coated carbon paper anodes and cathodes of the same material, in contact with atmospheric oxygen. Power was measured by monitoring voltage drop across an external resistance. Biohydrogen production and in situ hydrogen oxidation were identified as the main mechanisms for electron transfer to the MFC circuit. The nitrogen source affected MFC performance, with glutamate and nitrate-enhancing power production over ammonium. Power generation depended on the nature of the nitrogen source and on the availability of light. With light, the maximum point power density was 790 mW m(-2) (2.9 W m(-3)). In the dark, power output was less than 0.5 mW m(-2) (0.008 W m(-3)). Also, sustainable electrochemical activity was possible in cultures that did not receive a nitrogen source. We show conditions at which solar energy can se	2008	5	23	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Ammonia; Bioelectric Energy Sources; Bioreactors; Electrochemistry; Glutamic Acid; Industrial Microbiology; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy	Cho	Y K
17922302	10.1007/s11120-007-9239-0	Atomic force microscopy reveals multiple patterns of antenna organization in purple bacteria: implications for energy transduction mechanisms and membrane modeling.	Recent topographs of the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) of purple bacteria obtained by atomic force microscopy (AFM) have provided the first surface views of the native architecture of a multicomponent biological membrane at submolecular resolution, representing an important landmark in structural biology. A variety of species-dependent, closely packed arrangements of light-harvesting (LH) complexes was revealed: the most highly organized was found in Rhodobacter sphaeroides in which the peripheral LH2 antenna was seen either in large clusters or in fixed rows interspersed among ordered arrays of dimeric LH1-reaction center (RC) core complexes. A more random organization was observed in other species containing both the LH1 and LH2 complexes, as typified by Rhododspirillum photometricum with randomly packed monomeric LH1-RC core complexes intermingled with large, paracrystalline domains of LH2 antenna. Surprisingly, no structures that could be identified as the ATP synthase or cytochr	2009	5	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Cell Membrane; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Proteobacteria; Signal Transduction	Sturgis	James N
17912609	10.1007/s11120-007-9245-2	Comparison of the fluorescence kinetics of detergent-solubilized and membrane-reconstituted LH2 complexes from Rps. acidophila and Rb. sphaeroides.	Picosecond time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy has been used in order to compare the fluorescence kinetics of detergent-solubilized and membrane-reconstituted light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complexes from the purple bacteria Rhodopseudomonas (Rps.) acidophila and Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. LH2 complexes were reconstituted in phospholipid model membranes at different lipid:protein-ratios and all samples were studied exciting with a wide range of excitation densities. While the detergent-solubilized LH2 complexes from Rps. acidophila showed monoexponential decay kinetics (tau(f )= 980 ps) for excitation densities of up to 3.10(13) photons/(pulse.cm(2)), the membrane-reconstituted LH2 complexes showed multiexponential kinetics even at low excitation densities and high lipid:protein-ratios. The latter finding indicates an efficient clustering of LH2 complexes in the phospholipid membranes. Similar results were obtained for the LH2 complexes from Rb. sphaeroides.	2009	5	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Detergents; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Solubility	Pflock	Tobias
17910921	10.1016/j.pep.2007.07.012	Biophysical and biochemical characterization of reconstituted and purified Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase in phospholipid vesicles sheds insight into its functional oligomeric structure.	Discontinuous sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation was used to separate liposomes containing Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase (pCOV) from liposomes devoid of the enzyme, and the biophysical and biochemical properties of pCOV were compared to unpurified liposomes containing cytochrome c oxidase (COV). Isolated and purified R. sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase (COX) was reconstituted into asolectin phospholipid vesicles by cholate dialysis, and this preparation was purified further on a discontinuous sucrose gradient to isolate only those vesicles which contained the enzyme (pCOV). After centrifugation at 300,000g for 22h, 80% of the enzyme recovered was in a single band. The number of COX molecules per pCOV liposome was estimated by measuring the visible absorbance spectrum of cytochrome c oxidase (for heme aa(3)) and inorganic phosphate concentration (for phospholipid). The number of COX molecules incorporated per pCOV was estimated to be approximately one (0.72+/-0.19-1.09+	2008	3	25	Protein Expr Purif	Protein expression and purification	Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Centrifugation, Density Gradient; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Liposomes; Phospholipids; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cvetkov	Teresa L
17910480	10.1021/bi701407k	The photosystem of Rhodobacter sphaeroides assembles with zinc bacteriochlorophyll in a bchD (magnesium chelatase) mutant.	A Rhodobacter sphaeroides bchD (magnesium chelatase) mutant was studied to determine the properties of its photosystem in the absence of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl). Western blots of reaction center H, M, and L (RC H/M/L) proteins from mutant membranes showed levels of 12% RC H, 32% RC L, and 46% RC M relative to those of the wild type. Tricine-SDS-PAGE revealed 52% light-harvesting complex alpha chain and 14% beta chain proteins compared to those of the wild type. Pigment analysis of bchD cells showed the absence of BChl and bacteriopheophytin (BPhe), but zinc bacteriochlorophyll (Zn-BChl) was discovered. Zn-BChl binds to light-harvesting 1 (LH1) and 2 (LH2) complexes in place of BChl in bchD membranes, with a LH2:LH1 ratio resembling that of wild-type cells under BChl-limiting conditions. Furthermore, the RC from the bchD mutant contained Zn-BChl in the special pair and accessory BChl binding sites, as well as carotenoid and quinone, but BPhe was absent. Comparison of the bchD mutant 	2008	1	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Blotting, Western; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Lyases; Multienzyme Complexes; Mutation; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Jaschke	Paul R
17895378	10.1073/pnas.0706861104	Atomic-level structural and functional model of a bacterial photosynthetic membrane vesicle.	The photosynthetic unit (PSU) of purple photosynthetic bacteria consists of a network of bacteriochlorophyll-protein complexes that absorb solar energy for eventual conversion to ATP. Because of its remarkable simplicity, the PSU can serve as a prototype for studies of cellular organelles. In the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides the PSU forms spherical invaginations of the inner membrane, approximately 70 nm in diameter, composed mostly of light-harvesting complexes, LH1 and LH2, and reaction centers (RCs). Atomic force microscopy studies of the intracytoplasmic membrane have revealed the overall spatial organization of the PSU. In the present study these atomic force microscopy data were used to construct three-dimensional models of an entire membrane vesicle at the atomic level by using the known structure of the LH2 complex and a structural model of the dimeric RC-LH1 complex. Two models depict vesicles consisting of 9 or 18 dimeric RC-LH1 complexes and 144 or 101 LH2 comple	2007	11	27	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sener	Melih K
17890312	10.1128/JB.00730-07	Chemotactic control of the two flagellar systems of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is mediated by different sets of CheY and FliM proteins.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides expresses two different flagellar systems, a subpolar flagellum (fla1) and multiple polar flagella (fla2). These structures are encoded by different sets of flagellar genes. The chemotactic control of the subpolar flagellum (fla1) is mediated by three of the six different CheY proteins (CheY6, CheY4, or CheY3). We show evidence that CheY1, CheY2, and CheY5 control the chemotactic behavior mediated by fla2 flagella and that RSP6099 encodes the fla2 FliM protein.	2008	1	14	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Movement; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	del Campo	Ana Mart..nez
17873041	10.1128/JB.01073-07	The flagellar muramidase from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We have characterized open reading frame RSP0072, which is located within the flgG operon in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The amino acid sequence analysis of this gene product showed the presence of a soluble lytic transglycosylase domain. The deletion of the N-terminal region (90 amino acids) of the product of RSP0072 yields a leaky nonmotile phenotype, as determined by swarm assays in soft agar. Electron micrographs revealed the lack of flagella in mutant cells. The purified wild-type protein showed lytic activity on extracts of Micrococcus luteus. In contrast, no lytic activity was observed when the residues E57 or E83 were replaced by alanine. Affinity blotting suggests that the protein encoded by RSP0072 interacts with the flagellar rod-scaffolding protein FlgJ, which lacks the muramidase domain present in FlgJ of many bacteria. We propose that the product of RSP0072 is a flagellar muramidase that is exported to the periplasm via the Sec pathway, where it interacts with FlgJ to open a	2008	1	14	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Muramidase; Mutation; Open Reading Frames; Operon; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	de la Mora	Javier
17850796	10.1016/j.febslet.2007.08.058	PrrC, a Sco homologue from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, possesses thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase activity.	PrrC is a Sco homologue in Rhodobacter sphaeroides that is associated with PrrBA, a two-component signal transduction system that induces photosynthesis gene expression in response to a decrease in oxygen tension. Although Sco proteins have been shown to bind copper the observation that they are structurally-related to thioredoxins suggested that they might possess thiol-disulfide oxidoreductase activity. Our results show that PrrC reduces Cu(2+) to Cu(+) and possesses disulfide reductase activity. These results indicate that some bacterial Sco proteins may have biochemical properties that are distinct from those of mitochondrial Sco proteins.	2007	11	27	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Cations, Divalent; Copper; Electrochemistry; Insulin; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Protein Disulfide Reductase (Glutathione); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Thioredoxins	Badrick	Alison C
17846764	10.1007/s00253-007-1087-5	Azoreductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737 is a flavodoxin that also functions as nitroreductase and flavin mononucleotide reductase.	Previously reported azoreductase (AZR) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides AS1.1737 was shown to be a flavodoxin possessing nitroreductase and flavin mononucleotide (FMN) reductase activities. The structure model of AZR constructed with SWISS-MODEL displayed a flavodoxin-like fold with a three-layer alpha/beta/alpha structure. With nitrofurazone as substrate, the optimal pH value and temperature were 7.0 and 50 degrees C, respectively. AZR could reduce a number of nitroaromatic compounds including 2,4-dinitrotoluene, 2,6-dinitrotoluene, 3,5-dinitroaniline, and 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT). TNT resulted to be the most efficient nitro substrate and was reduced to hydroxylamino-dinitrotoluene. Both NADH and NADPH could serve as electron donors of AZR, where the latter was preferred. Externally added FMN was also reduced by AZR via ping-pong mechanism and was a competitive inhibitor of NADPH, methyl red, and nitrofurazone. AZR with broad substrate specificity is a member of a new nitro/FMN reducta	2008	1	3	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Amino Acid Sequence; FMN Reductase; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Nitroreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Liu	Guangfei
17827217	10.1529/biophysj.107.116913	Protein shape and crowding drive domain formation and curvature in biological membranes.	Folding, curvature, and domain formation are characteristics of many biological membranes. Yet the mechanisms that drive both curvature and the formation of specialized domains enriched in particular protein complexes are unknown. For this reason, studies in membranes whose shape and organization are known under physiological conditions are of great value. We therefore conducted atomic force microscopy and polarized spectroscopy experiments on membranes of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These membranes are densely populated with peripheral light harvesting (LH2) complexes, physically and functionally connected to dimeric reaction center-light harvesting (RC-LH1-PufX) complexes. Here, we show that even when converting the dimeric RC-LH1-PufX complex into RC-LH1 monomers by deleting the gene encoding PufX, both the appearance of protein domains and the associated membrane curvature are retained. This suggests that a general mechanism may govern membrane organizatio	2008	1	11	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Computer Simulation; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Monte Carlo Method; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Temperature	Frese	Raoul N
17803943	10.1016/j.molcel.2007.07.009	A conserved structural module regulates transcriptional responses to diverse stress signals in bacteria.	A transcriptional response to singlet oxygen in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is controlled by the group IV sigma factor sigma(E) and its cognate anti-sigma ChrR. Crystal structures of the sigma(E)/ChrR complex reveal a modular, two-domain architecture for ChrR. The ChrR N-terminal anti-sigma domain (ASD) binds a Zn(2+) ion, contacts sigma(E), and is sufficient to inhibit sigma(E)-dependent transcription. The ChrR C-terminal domain adopts a cupin fold, can coordinate an additional Zn(2+), and is required for the transcriptional response to singlet oxygen. Structure-based sequence analyses predict that the ASD defines a common structural fold among predicted group IV anti-sigmas. These ASDs are fused to diverse C-terminal domains that are likely involved in responding to specific environmental signals that control the activity of their cognate sigma factor.	2007	11	6	Mol Cell	Molecular cell	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxygen; Protein Folding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sigma Factor; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Zinc	Campbell	Elizabeth A
17766331	10.1529/biophysj.107.106377	On the effects of PufX on the absorption properties of the light-harvesting complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Some species of purple bacteria as, e.g., Rhodobacter sphaeroides contain the protein PufX. Concurrently, the light harvesting complexes 1 (LH1) form dimers of open rings. In mutants without PufX, the LH1s are closed rings and photosynthesis breaks down, because the ubiquinone exchange at the reaction center is blocked. However, the main purpose of the LH1 is light harvesting. We therefore investigate the effects that the PufX-induced dimerization has on the absorption properties of the core complexes. Calculations with a dipole model, which compare the photosynthetic efficiency of various configurations of monomeric and dimeric core complexes, show that the dimer can absorb photons directly into the reaction centers more efficiently, but that the performance of the more sophisticated dimeric LH1 antenna degrades faster with structural perturbations. The calculations predict an optimal orientation of the reaction centers relative to the LH1 dimer, which agrees well with the experimenta	2008	1	16	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Scattering, Radiation	Geyer	Tiham..r
17765994	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2007.07.721	Optimization of polyhydroxybutyrate production from a wild type and two mutant strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using statistical method.	Interaction studies using central composite design (CCD) gave the optimum concentrations of acetate at 4 g l(-1) and (NH4)2SO4 at 0.01 g l(-1) with an optimum temperature of 35 degrees C. Rhodobacter sphaeroides N20 gave the highest PHB (7.8 g l(-1)) and biomass (DCW) (8.2 g l(-1)) values compared to the wild type strain and the mutant strain U7. The CCD results predicted that the optimum medium for the mutant strain N20 consisted of 3.90 g l(-1) acetate, 0.01 g l(-1) (NH4)2SO4 at 33.5 degrees C (R2=0.985). Validation of this model by culturing the mutant strain in this optimum medium exhibited similar values of PHB (7.76 g l(-1)), biomass (8.32 g l(-1)) and the PHB content in the cell 93.2% of DCW. Similar amounts of PHB were also obtained in batch fermentations using a 5-l bioreactor. The effect of pH and aeration rate was also studied and the optimum values were found to be pH 7.0 with an aeration rate of 1.0 vvm. Under these optimal conditions, strain N20 produced the highest amoun	2008	1	23	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Acetates; Ammonium Sulfate; Biomass; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroxybutyrates; Mutation; Oxygen; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Surface Properties; Temperature	Sangkharak	Kanokphorn
17726751	10.1631/jzus.2007.B0686	In vitro assessment of gastrointestinal viability of two photosynthetic bacteria, Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The objectives of this study were to assess the potential of two photosynthetic bacteria (PSB), Rhodopseudomonas palustris HZ0301 and Rhodobacter sphaeroides HZ0302, as probiotics in aquaculture. The viability of HZ0301 and HZ0302 in simulated gastric transit conditions (pH 2.0, pH 3.0 and pH 4.0 gastric juices) and in simulated small intestinal transit conditions (pH 8.0, with or without 0.3% bile salts) was tested. The effects of HZ0301 and HZ0302 on the viability and permeability of intestinal epithelial cell in primary culture of tilapias, Oreochromis nilotica, were also detected. All the treatments were determined with three replicates. The simulated gastric transit tolerance of HZ0301 and HZ0302 strains was pH-dependent and correspondingly showed lower viability at pH 2.0 after 180 min compared with pH 3.0 and pH 4.0. Both HZ0301 and HZ0302 were tolerant to simulated small intestine transit with or without bile salts in our research. Moreover, there was no significant difference 	2007	11	13	J Zhejiang Univ Sci B	Journal of Zhejiang University. Science. B	Animals; Gastrointestinal Tract; Microbial Viability; Phototrophic Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Species Specificity; Tilapia	Zhou	Xu-xia
17720716	10.1093/pcp/pcm114	Isolation of SIP, a protein that interacts with SPB, a possible transcriptional regulatory factor in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	SPB is a transcriptional factor in Rhodobacter sphaeroides that represses expression of the puf operon under aerobic or semi-aerobic light conditions. Here, we identified a 17,500 Da protein designated SIP (SPB interaction protein) that interacts with SPB, as determined by binding to an SPB-His(x6) fusion protein-Ni column. The SPB-SIP interaction in vivo was confirmed by an immunoprecipitation assay. The level of transcripts and protein of SIP did not differ for all growth conditions tested, indicating that regulation of the SIP-SPB interaction, if any, is not through modulation of sip or spb expression but rather by modification of the proteins.	2008	1	4	Plant Cell Physiol	Plant &amp; cell physiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Shimada	Hiroshi
17715904	10.1021/jp073900b	Femtosecond spectroscopy of the primary charge separation in reaction centers of Chloroflexus aurantiacus with selective excitation in the QY and Soret bands.	The primary charge separation and electron-transfer processes of photosynthesis occur in the reaction center (RC). Isolated RCs of the green filamentous anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium Chloroflexus aurantiacus were studied at room temperature by using femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy with selective excitation. Upon excitation in the Q(Y) absorbance band of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) dimer (P) at 865 nm, a 7.0 +/- 0.5 ps kinetic component was observed in the 538 nm region (Q(X) band of the bacteriopheophytin (BPheo)), 750 nm region (Q(Y) band of the BPheo), and 920 nm region (stimulated emission of the excited-state of P), indicating that this lifetime represents electron transfer from P to BPheo. The same time constant was also observed upon 740 nm or 800 nm excitation. A longer lifetime (300 +/- 30 ps), which was assigned to the time of reduction of the primary quinone, Q(A), was also observed. The transient absorption spectra and kinetics all indicate that only one	2007	12	3	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Amino Acid Sequence; Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Phylogeny; Sequence Alignment; Signal Transduction; Spectrum Analysis; Time Factors	Xin	Yueyong
17705415	10.1021/bc070092i	Comparative in vitro and in vivo studies on long-wavelength photosensitizers derived from bacteriopurpurinimide and Bacteriochlorin p6: fused imide ring enhances the in vivo PDT efficacy.	In situ conversion of bacteriochlorophyll-a, present in Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rb. sphaeroides) gave bacteriopurpurin-18 in modest yield, which in a sequence of reactions was converted into two series of bacteriochlorins: bacteriopurpurinimide and bacteriopurpurin p6 with and without a fused imide ring system, respectively. To determine the effect of overall lipophilicity in photosensitizing efficacy, these bacteriochlorins were independently reacted with HBr gas and subsequently treated with various alkyl alcohols to afford the corresponding alkyl ether derivatives as diastereomeric mixtures (the R- and S-isomers were obtained in almost equal ratios). Between the two series of bacteriochlorins, the bacteriopurpurinimides containing a fused imide ring system were found to be more effective in vivo (C3H mice bearing RIF tumors). To investigate the effect of the presence of the chiral center at position 3 of the most effective purpurinimide 9 [3(1'-heptyloxy)ethyl-3-deacetyl-bacteriopu	2007	11	9	Bioconjug Chem	Bioconjugate chemistry	Animals; Imides; Isomerism; Mice; Mice, Inbred C3H; Neoplasms, Experimental; Photochemotherapy; Photosensitizing Agents; Porphyrins; Purinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship; Time Factors	Chen	Yihui
17704227	10.1128/JB.00946-07	Proteomic characterization of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 photosynthetic membrane: identification of new proteins.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) is an inducible membrane that is dedicated to the major events of bacterial photosynthesis, including harvesting light energy, separating primary charges, and transporting electrons. In this study, multichromatographic methods coupled with Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry, combined with subcellular fractionation, was used to test the hypothesis that the photosynthetic membrane of R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 contains a significant number of heretofore unidentified proteins in addition to the integral membrane pigment-protein complexes, including light-harvesting complexes 1 and 2, the photochemical reaction center, and the cytochrome bc(1) complex described previously. Purified ICM vesicles are shown to be enriched in several abundant, newly identified membrane proteins, including a protein of unknown function (AffyChip designation RSP1760) and a possible alkane hydroxylase (RSP1467). When the genes encoding	2007	11	27	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Fractionation; Chromatography; Intracellular Membranes; Mass Spectrometry; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zeng	Xiaohua
17696523	10.1021/jp072428r	Signals in solid-state photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization recover faster than signals obtained with the longitudinal relaxation time.	During the photocycle of quinone-blocked photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs), photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) is produced by polarization transfer from the initially totally electron polarized electron pair and can be observed by 13C magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR as a strong modification of signal intensities. The same processes creating net nuclear polarization open up light-dependent channels for polarization loss. This leads to coherent and incoherent enhanced signal recovery, in addition to the recovery due to light-independent longitudinal relaxation. Coherent mixing between electron and nuclear spin states due to pseudosecular hyperfine coupling within the radical pair state provides such a coherent loss channel for nuclear polarization. Another polarization transfer mechanism called differential relaxation, which is based on the long lifetime of the triplet state of the donor, provides an efficient incoherent relaxation path. In RCs of the p	2007	10	2	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	NA	Diller	Anna
17687573	10.1007/s00775-007-0279-x	Probing the role of copper in the biosynthesis of the molybdenum cofactor in Escherichia coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The crystal structure of Cnx1G, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of the molybdenum cofactor (Moco) in Arabidopsis thaliana, revealed the remarkable feature of a copper ion bound to the dithiolene unit of a molybdopterin intermediate (Kuper et al. Nature 430:803-806, 2004). To characterize further the role of copper in Moco biosynthesis, we examined the in vivo and/or in vitro activity of two Moco-dependent enzymes, dimethyl sulfoxide reductase (DMSOR) and nitrate reductase (NR), from cells grown under a variety of copper conditions. We found the activities of DMSOR and NR were not affected when copper was depleted from the media of either Escherichia coli or Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These data suggest that while copper may be utilized during Moco biosynthesis when it is available, copper does not appear to be strictly required for Moco biosynthesis in these two organisms.	2008	1	2	J Biol Inorg Chem	Journal of biological inorganic chemistry : JBIC : a publication of the Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Coenzymes; Copper; Escherichia coli; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Metalloproteins; Molybdenum Cofactors; Nitrate Reductase; Oxidoreductases; Pteridines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Morrison	M Scott
17685522	10.1021/ja072841c	Resolution of the spectroscopy versus crystallography issue for NO intermediates of nitrite reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2007	10	12	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Crystallography, X-Ray; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Nitric Oxide; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Ghosh	Somdatta
17676874	10.1021/bi700659y	Comparative genomics and site-directed mutagenesis support the existence of only one input channel for protons in the C-family (cbb3 oxidase) of heme-copper oxygen reductases.	Oxygen reductase members of the heme-copper superfamily are terminal respiratory oxidases in mitochondria and many aerobic bacteria and archaea, coupling the reduction of molecular oxygen to water to the translocation of protons across the plasma membrane. The protons required for catalysis and pumping in the oxygen reductases are derived from the cytoplasmic side of the membrane, transferred via proton-conducting channels comprised of hydrogen bond chains containing internal water molecules along with polar amino acid side chains. Recent analyses identified eight oxygen reductase families in the superfamily: the A-, B-, C-, D-, E-, F-, G-, and H-families of oxygen reductases. Two proton input channels, the K-channel and the D-channel, are well established in the A-family of oxygen reductases (exemplified by the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidases and by the respiratory oxidases from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans). Each of these channels can be identified by the 	2007	11	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Ion Channels; Ion Transport; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Phylogeny; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Vibrio cholerae	Hemp	James
17676770	10.1021/bi700928m	Access to the active site of periplasmic nitrate reductase: insights from site-directed mutagenesis and zinc inhibition studies.	The periplasmic nitrate reductase (NapAB), a member of the DMSO reductase superfamily, catalyzes the first step of the denitrification process in bacteria. In this heterodimer, a di-heme NapB subunit is associated to the catalytic NapA subunit that binds a [4Fe-4S] cluster and a bis(molybdopterin guanine dinucleotide) cofactor. Here, we report the kinetic characterization of purified mutated heterodimers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. By combining site-directed mutagenesis, redox potentiometry, EPR spectroscopy, and enzymatic characterization, we investigate the catalytic role of two conserved residues (M153 and R392) located in the vicinity of the molybdenum active site. We demonstrate that M153 and R392 are involved in nitrate binding: the Vm measured on the M153A and R392A mutants are similar to that measured on the wild-type enzyme, whereas the Km for nitrate is increased 10-fold and 200-fold, respectively. The use of an alternative enzymatic assay led us to discover that NapAB is u	2007	9	26	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Molybdenum; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Nitrate Reductase; Nitrates; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasm; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Dementin	S..bastien
17660296	10.1074/jbc.M703261200	Novel heme-based oxygen sensor with a revealing evolutionary history.	To monitor fluctuations in oxygen concentration, cells use sensory proteins often containing heme cofactors. Here, we identify a new class of heme-binding oxygen sensors, reveal their unusual phylogenetic origin, and propose a sensing mode of a member of this class. We show that heme is bound noncovalently to the central region of AppA, an oxygen and light sensor from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The addition of oxygen to ferrous AppA discoordinated the heme, and subsequent oxygen removal fully restored the heme coordination. In vitro, the extent of heme discoordination increased gradually with the rise in oxygen levels over a broad concentration range. This response correlated well with the gradual decrease in transcription of photosynthesis genes regulated by AppA and its partner repressor PpsR. We conclude that the AppA-PpsR regulatory system functions as an oxygen-dependent transcriptional rheostat. We identified a new domain embedded in the central region of AppA and designated it SCH	2007	11	8	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Evolution, Molecular; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heme; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic; Vitamin B 12	Moskvin	Oleg V
17644813	10.1074/jbc.M702855200	The significance of type II and PrxQ peroxiredoxins for antioxidative stress response in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Two peroxiredoxins, classified as Type II and PrxQ, were characterized in the purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Both recombinant proteins showed remarkable thioredoxin-dependent peroxidase activity with broad substrate specificity in vitro. Nevertheless, PrxQ of R. sphaeroides, unlike typical PrxQs studied to date, does not contain one of the two conserved catalytic Cys residues. We found that R. sphaeroides PrxQ and other PrxQ-like proteins from several organisms conserve a different second Cys residue, indicating that these proteins should be categorized into a novel PrxQ subfamily. Disruption of either the Type II or PrxQ gene in R. sphaeroides had a dramatic effect on cell viability when the cells were grown under aerobic light or oxidative stress conditions created by exogenous addition of reactive oxygen species to the medium. Growth rates of the mutants were significantly decreased compared with that of wild type under aerobic but not anaerobic 	2007	10	24	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Cysteine; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; Peroxidases; Peroxiredoxins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Sulfhydryl Compounds	Wakita	Masahiro
17636389	10.1007/s10529-007-9413-7	Rhodethrin: a novel indole terpenoid ether produced by Rhodobacter sphaeroides has cytotoxic and phytohormonal activities.	A novel metabolite was isolated from the culture supernatants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 when grown on L-tryptophan as sole source of nitrogen under photoheterotrophic conditions. It was identified by IR, NMR ((1)H, (13)C) and MS as an indole terpenoid ether [3-hydroxy-6-(1H-indol-3-yloxy)-4-methylhexanoic acid] and is named as rhodethrin. Rhodethrin at 0.5 microM gave positive test in auxin bioassay and initiated early rooting in tissue-cultured plants than IAA at 5 microM. Rhodethrin has cytotoxic activity against Sup-T(1) lymphoma and Colo-125 cancer cell lines at 10 nM.	2007	11	13	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Cell Line, Tumor; Cell Survival; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Humans; Lymphoma, T-Cell; Morus; Plant Growth Regulators; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Secologanin Tryptamine Alkaloids	Ranjith	N Kumavath
17630781	10.1021/bi700559b	13C chemical shift map of the active cofactors in photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides revealed by photo-CIDNP MAS NMR.	13C photo-CIDNP MAS NMR studies have been performed on reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type (WT) that have been selectively labeled with an isotope using [5-13C]-delta-aminolevulinic acid.HCl in all the BChl and BPhe cofactors at positions C-4, C-5, C-9, C-10, C-14, C-15, C-16, and C-20. 13C CP/MAS NMR and 13C-13C dipolar correlation photo-CIDNP MAS NMR provide a chemical shift map of the cofactors involved in the electron transfer process in the RC at the atomic scale. The 13C-13C dipolar correlation photo-CIDNP spectra reveal three strong components, originating from two BChl cofactors, called P1 and P2 and assigned to the special pair, as well as one BPhe, PhiA. In addition, there is a weak component observed that arises from a third BChl cofactor, denoted P3, which appears to originate from the accessory BChl BA. An almost complete set of assignments of all the aromatic carbon atoms in the macrocycles of BChl and BPhe is achieved in combination with previous 	2007	10	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carbon Isotopes; Darkness; Light; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Pheophytins; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Prakash	Shipra
17617552	10.1529/biophysj.106.103473	Two stereoisomers of spheroidene in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 reaction center: a DFT analysis of resonance Raman spectra.	From a theoretical analysis of the resonance Raman spectra of 19 isotopomers of spheroidene reconstituted into the reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26, we conclude that the carotenoid in the RC occurs in two configurations. The normal mode underlying the resonance Raman transition at 1239 cm(-1), characteristic for spheroidene in the RC, has been identified and found to uniquely refer to the cis nature of the 15,15' carbon-carbon double bond. Detailed analysis of the isotope-induced shifts of transitions in the 1500-1550 cm(-1) region proves that, besides the 15,15'-cis configuration, spheroidene in the RC adopts another cis-configuration, most likely the 13,14-cis configuration.	2007	10	16	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Carbon; Carotenoids; Hydrogen; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Stereoisomerism; X-Ray Diffraction	Wirtz	A C
17616531	10.1074/jbc.M702333200	Hydrogen bonds between nitrogen donors and the semiquinone in the Qi-site of the bc1 complex.	The ubisemiquinone stabilized at the Qi-site of the bc1 complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides forms a hydrogen bond with a nitrogen from the local protein environment, tentatively identified as ring N from His-217. The interactions of 14N and 15N have been studied by X-band (approximately 9.7 GHz) and S-band (3.4 GHz) pulsed EPR spectroscopy. The application of S-band spectroscopy has allowed us to determine the complete nuclear quadrupole tensor of the 14N involved in H-bond formation and to assign it unambiguously to the Nepsilon of His-217. This tensor has distinct characteristics in comparison with H-bonds between semiquinones and Ndelta in other quinone-processing sites. The experiments with 15N showed that the Nepsilon of His-217 was the only nitrogen carrying any considerable unpaired spin density in the ubiquinone environment, and allowed calculation of the isotropic and anisotropic couplings with the Nepsilon of His-217. From these data, we could estimate the unpaired spin densit	2007	10	29	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Mutation, Missense; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship; X-Ray Diffraction	Dikanov	Sergei A
17616348	10.1016/j.resmic.2007.04.008	Catabolism of L-phenylalanine and L-tyrosine by Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 occurs through 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 utilized l-phenylalanine as sole source of nitrogen for growth. The metabolites of l-phenylalanine catabolism, i.e. 4-hydroxy phenylalanine (l-tyrosine), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-pyruvic acid (DOPP), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid (DOPLA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid (DOPAc) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (PC), were identified using liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS). With 2-oxoglutarate as an amino acceptor, DOPA aminotransferase activity was observed with cell-free extracts and the product DOPP was confirmed through mass analysis. Reductive deamination of DOPA also occurred in the absence of 2-oxoglutarate, whose products were 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid (DPPA) and ammonia. The enzyme DOPA-reductive deaminase (DOPARDA) was purified to its homogeneity and characterized. DOPARDA has an obligate requirement for NADH and is functional at low concentrations of the substrate (&lt;150 microM). The molecular mass	2007	11	20	Res Microbiol	Research in microbiology	Cell-Free System; Dihydroxyphenylalanine; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Phenylalanine; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Ranjith	N K
17609942	10.1007/s00253-007-1079-5	Evaluation of colors in green mutants isolated from purple bacteria as a host for colorimetric whole-cell biosensors.	The change in carotenoid-based bacterial color from yellow to red can be applied to whole-cell biosensors. We generated several green mutants to emphasize the color change in such biosensors. The blue-green crtI-deleted mutant, Rhodopseudomonas palustris no.711, accumulated the colorless carotenoid precursor, phytoene. Green Rhodovulum sulfidophilum M31 accumulated neurosporene, a downstream product of phytoene. Another green mutant, Rhodobacter sphaeroides Ga, accumulated neurosporene and chloroxanthin, which are both downstream products of phytoene. All green mutants accumulated bacteriochlorophyll a. Photosynthetic membrane obtained from the green mutants all exhibited decreased absorption of wavelength range at 510-570 nm. Therefore, these indicate that the greenish bacterial colors were mainly caused by the existence of bacteriochlorophyll a and the changes in carotenoid composition in photosynthetic membrane. The colors of the green mutants and their wild-type strains were plotte	2007	11	27	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biosensing Techniques; Biotechnology; Carotenoids; Colorimetry; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodovulum	Yoshida	Kazuyuki
17609142	10.1016/S0076-6879(07)23018-6	In vivo and in vitro analysis of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides chemotaxis signaling complexes.	This chapter describes both the in vivo and in vitro methods that have been successfully used to analyze the chemotaxis pathways of R. sphaeroides, showing that two operons each encode a complete chemosensory pathway with each forming into independent signaling clusters. The methods used range from in vitro analysis of the chemotaxis phosphorylation reactions to protein localization experiments. In vitro analysis using purified proteins shows a complex pattern of phosphotransfer. However, protein localization studies show that the R. sphaeroides chemotaxis proteins are organized into two distinct sensory clusters -- one containing transmembrane receptors located at the cell poles and the other containing soluble chemoreceptors located in the cytoplasm. Signal outputs from both clusters are essential for chemotaxis. Each cluster has a dedicated chemotaxis histidine protein kinase (HPK), CheA. There are a total of eight chemotaxis response regulators in R. sphaeroides, six CheYs and two 	2008	1	2	Methods Enzymol	Methods in enzymology	Bacterial Proteins; Biochemistry; Chemotaxis; Cluster Analysis; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; In Vitro Techniques; Models, Biological; Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases; Phosphorylation; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Time Factors	Porter	Steven L
17603203	10.1248/cpb.55.1067	Identification of tetrapyrrole compounds excreted by Rhodobacter sphaeroides and sources of the methyl hydrogens of bacteriochlorophyll a biosynthesized by R. sphaeroides, based on 13C-NMR spectral analysis of coproporphyrin III tetramethyl ester.	Red-fluorescent tetrapyrrole compounds excreted by Rhodobacter sphaeroides into the culture broth were concluded to be coproporphyrinogen (Copro'gen) III and uroporphyrinogen (Uro'gen) I, based on the (13)C-NMR spectral identification of coproporphyrin (Copro) III tetramethyl ester and uroproporphyrin (Uro) I octamethyl ester. The sources of the methyl hydrogens of bacteriochlorophyll a were established by analysis of the (13)C-NMR spectra of (2)H,(13)C-Copro III tetramethyl ester chemically derived from (2)H,(13)C-Copro'gen III biosynthesized through the feeding of delta-amino[2-(13)C]levulinic acid (ALA) to R. sphaeroides in medium containing 50% (2)H(2)O. We confirmed the previous finding that one of the methyl hydrogens was derived from water in the medium during decarboxylation of four acetyl side chains of Uro'gen III to generate Copro'gen III. It was further shown that the other hydrogen atoms, previously reported to be derived from methylene hydrogens at C-2 of ALA, had been ex	2007	9	12	Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo)	Chemical &amp; pharmaceutical bulletin	Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Carbon Isotopes; Cells, Cultured; Coproporphyrinogens; Coproporphyrins; Esters; Hydrogen; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Methane; Molecular Structure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles; Uroporphyrinogens	Iida	Katsumi
17602252	10.1007/s10295-007-0229-1	Identification, characterization and functional expression of a tyrosine ammonia-lyase and its mutants from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A tyrosine ammonia-lyase (TAL) enzyme from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsTAL) was identified, cloned and functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, where conversion of tyrosine to p-hydroxycinnamic acid (pHCA) was demonstrated. The RsTAL enzyme is implicated in production of pHCA, which serves as the cofactor for synthesis of the photoactive yellow protein (PYP) in photosynthetic bacteria. The wild type RsTAL enzyme, while accepting both tyrosine and phenylalanine as substrate, prefers tyrosine, but a serendipitous RsTAL mutant identified during PCR amplification of the RsTAL gene, demonstrates much higher preference for phenylalanine as substrate and deaminates it to produces cinnamic acid. Sequence analysis showed the presence of three mutations: Met4 --&gt; Ile, Ile325 --&gt; Val and Val409 --&gt; Met in this mutant. Sequence comparison with Rhodobacter capsulatus TAL (RcTAL) shows that Val409 is conserved between RcTAL and RsTAL. Two single mutants of RsT	2008	2	8	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Amino Acid Sequence; Ammonia-Lyases; Bacterial Proteins; Coumaric Acids; Escherichia coli; Mutation; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Tyrosine	Xue	Zhixiong
19636813	10.1007/s12104-007-9011-6	NMR assignment of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides fasciclin-1 domain protein (Fdp).	We report the almost complete assignment of 1H, 13C and 15N nuclei in the 137-residue his-tagged fasciclin domain protein (Fdp) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Fdp is homologous to fasciclin I domains, including Drosophila FAS1 and M. tuberculosis MPB70 and plays a role in cell adhesion.	2009	9	17	Biomol NMR Assign	Biomolecular NMR assignments	Animals; Bacterial Adhesion; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Adhesion Molecules, Neuronal; Drosophila Proteins; Genes, Bacterial; Mycobacterium tuberculosis; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Moody	Robert G
17590017	10.1021/bi7005256	ENDOR spectroscopy reveals light induced movement of the H-bond from Ser-L223 upon forming the semiquinone (Q(B)(-)(*)) in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Proton ENDOR spectroscopy was used to monitor local conformational changes in bacterial reaction centers (RC) associated with the electron-transfer reaction DQB --&gt; D+*QB-* using mutant RCs capable of photoreducing QB at cryogenic temperatures. The charge separated state D+*QB-* was studied in mutant RCs formed by either (i) illuminating at low temperature (77 K) a sample frozen in the dark (ground state protein conformation) or (ii) illuminating at room temperature prior to and during freezing (charge separated state protein conformation). The charge recombination rates from the two states differed greatly (&gt;10(6) fold) as shown previously, indicating a structural change (Paddock et al. (2006) Biochemistry 45, 14032-14042). ENDOR spectra of QB-* from both samples (35 GHz, 77 K) showed several H-bond hyperfine couplings that were similar to those for QB-* in native RCs indicating that in all RCs, QB-* was located at the proximal position near the metal site. In contrast, one set 	2007	8	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Freezing; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Models, Molecular; Motion; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine	Paddock	M L
17588528	10.1016/j.bbabio.2007.05.006	Stabilization of charge separation and cardiolipin confinement in antenna-reaction center complexes purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The reaction center-light harvesting complex 1 (RC-LH1) purified from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied with respect to the kinetics of charge recombination and to the phospholipid and ubiquinone (UQ) complements tightly associated with it. In the antenna-RC complexes, at 6.5&lt;pH&lt;9.0, P(+)Q(B)(-) recombines with a pH independent average rate constant &lt;k&gt; more than three times smaller than that measured in LH1-deprived RCs. At increasing pH values, for which &lt;k&gt; increases, the deceleration observed in RC-LH1 complexes is reduced, vanishing at pH &gt;11.0. In both systems kinetics are described by a continuous rate distribution, which broadens at pH &gt;9.5, revealing a strong kinetic heterogeneity, more pronounced in the RC-LH1 complex. In the presence of the antenna the Q(A)Q(B)(-) state is stabilized by about 40 meV at 6.5&lt;pH&lt;9.0, while it is destabilized at pH &gt;11. The phospholipid/RC and UQ/RC ratios have been compared in	2007	10	15	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Cardiolipins; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Phospholipids; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Dezi	Manuela
17570397	10.1016/j.jmb.2007.04.082	pH modulates the quinone position in the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the neutral and charge separated states.	The structure of the photosynthetic reaction-center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been determined at four different pH values (6.5, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0) in the neutral and in charge separated states. At pH 8.0, in the neutral state, we obtain a resolution of 1.87 A, which is the best ever reported for the bacterial reaction center protein. Our crystallographic data confirm the existence of two different binding positions of the secondary quinone (QB). We observe a new orientation of QB in its distal position, which shows no ring-flip compared to the orientation in the proximal position. Datasets collected for the different pH values show a pH-dependence of the population of the proximal position. The new orientation of QB in the distal position and the pH-dependence could be confirmed by continuum electrostatics calculations. Our calculations are in agreement with the experimentally observed proton uptake upon charge separation. The high resolution of our crystallographic data allows us 	2007	9	21	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Crystallography, X-Ray; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Koepke	Juergen
17567219	10.1063/1.2739513	Pressure-induced spectral changes for the special-pair radical cation of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center.	The effect of pressure up to 6 kbars on the near to mid infrared absorption spectrum (7500-14,300 cm(-1) or 1333-700 nm) of the oxidized reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is measured and interpreted using density-functional B3LYP, INDO, and PM5 calculations. Two weak electronic transition origins at approximately 8010 and approximately 10,210 cm(-1) are unambiguously identified. The first transition is assigned to a Qy tripdoublet band that involves, in the localized description of the excitation, a triplet absorption on one of the bacteriochlorophyll molecules (PM) in the reaction center's special pair intensified by the presence of a radical cation on the other (PL). While most chlorophyll transition energies decrease significantly with increasing pressure, the tripdoublet band is found to be almost pressure insensitive. This difference is attributed to the additional increase in the tripdoublet-band energy accompanying compression of the pi-stacked special pair. The second 	2007	8	14	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Cations; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Leiger	Kristjan
17559944	10.1016/j.vetimm.2007.04.017	Stable transduction of bovine TLR4 and bovine MD-2 into LPS-nonresponsive cells and soluble CD14 promote the ability to respond to LPS.	The interaction of bovine cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was explored using human embryo kidney (HEK) 293 cell line stably transduced with bovine toll-like receptor-4 (TLR4) alone or in combination with bovine MD-2. These lines and mock-transduced HEK293 cells were tested by flow cytometry for LPS-fluorescein isothiocyanate (LPS-FITC) binding, nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) activation, interleukin-8 (IL-8) production and interferon-beta mRNA expression/interferon (IFN) type I production. Whereas bovine TLR4 was sufficient to promote binding of high concentrations of LPS-FITC, both bovine TLR4 and MD-2 were required for activation by LPS, as assessed by NFkappaB activation and IL-8 production. Induction of IFN bioactivity was not observed in doubly transduced HEK293 cells, and no evidence for IFN-beta mRNA induction in response to LPS was obtained, although cells responded by IFN-beta mRNA expression to stimulation by Sendai virus and poly-inosinic acid-poly-cytidylic acid (poly	2007	9	21	Vet Immunol Immunopathol	Veterinary immunology and immunopathology	Animals; Cattle; Cell Line; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Expressed Sequence Tags; Gene Expression; Humans; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Macrophages; Solubility; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Transduction, Genetic; Transgenes	Sauter	Kay-Sara
17557830	10.1128/JB.00443-07	Dominant role of the cbb3 oxidase in regulation of photosynthesis gene expression through the PrrBA system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	In this study, the H303A mutant form of the cbb(3) oxidase (H303A oxidase), which has the H303A mutation in its catalytic subunit (CcoN), was purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The H303A oxidase showed the same catalytic activity as did the wild-type form of the oxidase (WT oxidase). The heme contents of the mutant and WT forms of the cbb(3) oxidase were also comparable. However, the puf and puc operons, which are under the control of the PrrBA two-component system, were shown to be derepressed aerobically in the R. sphaeroides strain expressing the H303A oxidase. Since the strain harboring the H303A oxidase exhibited the same cytochrome c oxidase activity as the stain harboring the WT oxidase did, the aerobic derepression of photosynthesis gene expression observed in the H303A mutant appears to be the result of a defective signaling function of the H303A oxidase rather than reflecting any redox changes in the ubiquinone/ubiquinol pool. It was also demonstrated that ubiquinone inhi	2007	9	10	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Mutation, Missense; Phosphorylation; Photosynthesis; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Ubiquinone	Kim	Yong-Jin
17548827	10.1073/pnas.0702791104	Synthesis of C5-dicarboxylic acids from C2-units involving crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase: the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway.	Fifty years ago, Kornberg and Krebs established the glyoxylate cycle as the pathway for the synthesis of cell constituents from C2-units. However, since then, many bacteria have been described that do not contain isocitrate lyase, the key enzyme of this pathway. Here, a pathway termed the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway operating in such organisms is described. Isotopically labeled acetate and bicarbonate were transformed to ethylmalonyl-CoA by cell extracts of acetate-grown, isocitrate lyase-negative Rhodobacter sphaeroides as determined by NMR spectroscopy. Crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase, catalyzing crotonyl-CoA + CO2 + NADPH --&gt; ethylmalonyl-CoA- + NADP+ was identified as the key enzyme of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. The reductive carboxylation of an enoyl-thioester is a unique biochemical reaction, unprecedented in biology. The enzyme from R. sphaeroides was heterologously produced in Escherichia coli and characterized. Crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase (or its gene) can be used	2007	8	15	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Acyl Coenzyme A; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Carboxy-Lyases; Chromatography, Affinity; Chromatography, DEAE-Cellulose; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Dicarboxylic Acids; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Methylobacterium extorquens; Models, Biological; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Streptomyces	Erb	Tobias J
17547450	10.1021/jp071395c	Role of B800 in carotenoid-bacteriochlorophyll energy and electron transfer in LH2 complexes from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The role of the B800 in energy and electron transfer in LH2 complexes has been studied using femtosecond time-resolved transient absorption spectroscopy. The B800 site was perturbed by application of lithium dodecyl sulfate (LDS), and comparison of treated and untreated LH2 complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides incorporating carotenoids neurosporene, spheroidene, and spheroidenone was used to explore the role of B800 in carotenoid to bacteriochlorophyll-a (BChla) energy transfer and carotenoid radical formation. Efficiencies of the S1-mediated energy transfer in the LDS-treated complexes were 86, 61, and 57% in the LH2 complexes containing neurosporene, spheroidene, and spheroidenone, respectively. Analysis of the carotenoid S1 lifetimes in solution, LDS-treated, and untreated LH2 complexes allowed determination of B800/B850 branching ratio in the S1-mediated energy transfer. It is shown that B800 is a major acceptor, as approximately 60% of the energy from the carotenoid S1 state is 	2007	9	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Pol..vka	Tomas
17542622	10.1021/bi7006433	On the role of aromatic side chains in the photoactivation of BLUF domains.	BLUF (blue-light sensing using FAD) domain proteins are a novel group of blue-light sensing receptors found in many microorganisms. The role of the aromatic side chains Y21 and W104, which are in close vicinity to the FAD cofactor in the AppA BLUF domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, is investigated through the introduction of several amino acid substitutions at these positions. NMR spectroscopy indicated that in the W104F mutant, the local structure of the FAD binding pocket was not significantly perturbed as compared to that of the wild type. Time-resolved fluorescence and absorption spectroscopy was applied to explore the role of Y21 and W104 in AppA BLUF photochemistry. In the Y21 mutants, FADH*-W* radical pairs are transiently formed on a ps time scale and recombine to the ground state on a ns time scale. The W104F mutant shows a spectral evolution similar to that of wild type AppA but with an increased yield of signaling state formation. In the Y21F/W104F double mutant, all light	2007	8	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Amino Acids, Aromatic; Electrons; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Light; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photochemistry; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons	Gauden	Magdalena
17536848	10.1021/pr060624p	Protein synthesis patterns reveal a complex regulatory response to singlet oxygen in Rhodobacter.	Singlet oxygen (1O2) is a stress factor and signal in the facultative phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In vivo protein labeling with L-[35S]-methionine and analysis by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the synthesis of 61 proteins was changed in response to 1O2. After 1O2 treatment, protein synthesis patterns were distinct from those after H2O2 treatment but similar to those after high light exposure. This indicates regulatory mechanisms selective for different reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a response to light partly mediated by 1O2. Analysis of mutant strains support that the response to 1O2 is regulated mainly by rpoE (sigma E), but also a modulation of the sigma E dependent response by other factors and the existence of sigma E independent responses. The involvement of the RNA chaperon Hfq in the 1O2 response implies a role of small regulatory RNAs.	2007	8	30	J Proteome Res	Journal of proteome research	Bacterial Proteins; Catalase; Cations, Divalent; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Host Factor 1 Protein; Hydrogen Peroxide; Light; Mutation; Protein Biosynthesis; Proteome; RNA, Messenger; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription Factors	Glaeser	Jens
17530796	10.1021/jp070029q	Measuring electronic coupling in the reaction center of purple photosynthetic bacteria by two-color, three-pulse photon echo peak shift spectroscopy.	One- and two-color, three-pulse photon echo peak shift spectroscopy (1C and 2C3PEPS) was used to estimate the electronic coupling between the accessory bacteriochlorophyll (B) and the bacteriopheophytin (H) in the reaction center of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides as approximately 170 +/- 30 cm-1. This is the first direct experimental determination of this parameter; it is within the range of values found in previously published calculations. The 1C3PEPS signal of the Qy band of the bacteriochlorophyll B shows that it is weakly coupled to nuclear motions of the bath, whereas the 1C3PEPS signal of the Qy band of the bacteriopheophytin, H, shows that it is more strongly coupled to the bath, but has minimal inhomogeneous broadening. Our simulations capture the major features of the data with the theoretical framework developed in our group to separately calculate the response functions and population dynamics.	2007	9	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Color; Electrons; Molecular Structure; Photochemistry; Photons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pulse; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Parkinson	Dilworth Y
17526841	10.1099/mic.0.2006/004390-0	The phrA gene of Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes a photolyase and is regulated by singlet oxygen and peroxide in a sigma(E)-dependent manner.	The genome of the facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes three proteins of the photolyase/cryptochrome family. This paper shows that phrA (RSP2143) encodes a functional photolyase, which is an enzyme that repairs UV radiation-induced DNA damage in a blue light dependent manner. Expression of phrA is upregulated in response to light, with no photoreceptor or the photosynthetic electron transport being involved. The results reveal that singlet oxygen and hydrogen peroxide dependent signals are transmitted by the sigma(E) factor and the anti-sigma(E) factor ChrR affecting phrA expression, while superoxide anions do not stimulate phrA expression. Thus, the sigma(E) regulon is involved not only in the response to singlet oxygen but also in the hydrogen peroxide response.	2007	11	5	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Amino Acid Sequence; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Artificial Gene Fusion; Bacterial Proteins; Deoxyribodipyrimidine Photo-Lyase; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Light; Microbial Viability; Molecular Sequence Data; Peroxides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Superoxides; Transcription Factors; Up-Regulation; beta-Galactosidase	Hendrischk	Anne-Kathrin
17516659	10.1021/bi7003685	The structure of L-tyrosine 2,3-aminomutase from the C-1027 enediyne antitumor antibiotic biosynthetic pathway.	The SgcC4 l-tyrosine 2,3-aminomutase (SgTAM) catalyzes the formation of (S)-beta-tyrosine in the biosynthetic pathway of the enediyne antitumor antibiotic C-1027. SgTAM is homologous to the histidine ammonia lyase family of enzymes whose activity is dependent on the methylideneimidazole-5-one (MIO) cofactor. Unlike the lyase enzymes, SgTAM catalyzes additional chemical transformations resulting in an overall stereospecific 1,2-amino shift in the substrate l-tyrosine to generate (S)-beta-tyrosine. Previously, we provided kinetic, spectroscopic, and mutagenesis data supporting the presence of MIO in the active site of SgTAM [Christenson, S. D.; Wu, W.; Spies, A.; Shen, B.; and Toney, M. D. (2003) Biochemistry 42, 12708-12718]. Here we report the first X-ray crystal structure of an MIO-containing aminomutase, SgTAM, and confirm the structural homology of SgTAM to ammonia lyases. Comparison of the structure of SgTAM to the l-tyrosine ammonia lyase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides provides insi	2007	8	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Aminoglycosides; Antibiotics, Antineoplastic; Catalytic Domain; Crystallography, X-Ray; Enediynes; Imidazoles; Intramolecular Transferases; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Recombinant Proteins; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Static Electricity; Streptomyces	Christianson	Carl V
17513366	10.1529/biophysj.106.103093	Solvation effect of bacteriochlorophyll excitons in light-harvesting complex LH2.	We have characterized the influence of the protein environment on the spectral properties of the bacteriochlorophyll (Bchl) molecules of the peripheral light-harvesting (or LH2) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The spectral density functions of the pigments responsible for the 800 and 850 nm electronic transitions were determined from the temperature dependence of the Bchl absorption spectra in different environments (detergent micelles and native membranes). The spectral density function is virtually independent of the hydrophobic support that the protein experiences. The reorganization energy for the B850 Bchls is 220 cm(-1), which is almost twice that of the B800 Bchls, and its Huang-Rhys factor reaches 8.4. Around the transition point temperature, and at higher temperatures, both the static spectral inhomogeneity and the resonance interactions become temperature-dependent. The inhomogeneous distribution function of the transitions exhibits less temperature dependence when LH2 	2007	11	21	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacteriochlorophylls; Biophysical Phenomena; Biophysics; Electrochemistry; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Micelles; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Thermodynamics	Urboniene	V
17506668	10.1146/annurev.micro.61.080706.093402	Postgenomic adventures with Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	This review describes some of the recent highlights taken from the studies of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. The review is not intended to be comprehensive, but to reflect the bias of the authors as to how the availability of a sequenced and annotated genome, a gene-chip, and proteomic profile as well as comparative genomic analyses can direct the progress of future research in this system.	2007	12	13	Annu Rev Microbiol	Annual review of microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Genetic Variation; Movement; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Quorum Sensing; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Mackenzie	Chris
17503150	10.1007/s00284-006-0440-8	Light-dependent assimilation of trans-cinnamate by Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5.	We present a novel light-dependent metabolism of an aromatic compound (trans-cinnamate) that is assimilatory rather than dissimilatory. Light-dependent assimilation of trans-cinnamate was observed by both growing and resting cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5. Trans-cinnamate assimilation could be correlated with simultaneous formation of both phenylalanine and tyrosine at near-stoichiometric ratios. Trans-cinnamate assimilation was promoted by carbon source and electron donors, such as glucose, pyruvate, or alpha-ketoglutarate, whereas malate, succinate, fumarate, and acetate were inhibitory.	2007	8	28	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Carbon; Cinnamates; Light; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Usha	P
17501930	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2007.05724.x	A haem cofactor is required for redox and light signalling by the AppA protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The AppA protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is unique in its ability to sense and transmit redox signals as well as light signals. By functioning as antagonist to the PpsR transcriptional repressor, it regulates the expression of photosynthesis genes in response to these environmental stimuli. Here we show binding of the cofactor haem to a domain in the C-terminal part of AppA and redox activity of bound haem. This is supported by the findings that: (i) the C-terminal domain of AppA (AppADeltaN) binds to haemin agarose, (ii) AppADeltaN isolated from Escherichia coli shows absorbance at 411 nm and absorbances at 424 nm and 556 nm after reduction with dithionite and (iii) AppADeltaN can be reconstituted with haem in vitro. Expression of AppA variants in R. sphaeroides reveals that the haem binding domain is important for normal expression levels of photosynthesis genes and for normal light regulation in the presence of oxygen. The haem cofactor affects the interaction of the C-terminal p	2007	12	3	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Coenzymes; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Escherichia coli; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heme; Hemin; Light; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Deletion; Signal Transduction; Spectrum Analysis	Han	Yuchen
17497939	10.1021/bi700057f	The unusually strong hydrogen bond between the carbonyl of Q(A) and His M219 in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center is not essential for efficient electron transfer from Q(A)(-) to Q(B).	In native reaction centers (RCs) from photosynthetic purple bacteria the primary quinone (QA) and the secondary quinone (QB) are interconnected via a specific His-Fe-His bridge. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs the C4=O carbonyl of QA forms a very strong hydrogen bond with the protonated Npi of His M219, and the Ntau of this residue is in turn coordinated to the non-heme iron atom. The second carbonyl of QA is engaged in a much weaker hydrogen bond with the backbone N-H of Ala M260. In previous work, a Trp side chain was introduced by site-directed mutagenesis at the M260 position in the RC of Rb. sphaeroides, resulting in a complex that is completely devoid of QA and therefore nonfunctional. A photochemically competent derivative of the AM260W mutant was isolated that contains a Cys side chain at the M260 position (denoted AM260(W--&gt;C)). In the present work, the interactions between the carbonyl groups of QA and the protein in the AM260(W--&gt;C) suppressor mutant have been character	2007	7	5	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cysteine; Electron Transport; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron; Kinetics; Light; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Water	Breton	Jacques
17497913	10.1021/jp070016c	Orientation-resolving pulsed electron dipolar high-field EPR spectroscopy on disordered solids: I. Structure of spin-correlated radical pairs in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	Distance and relative orientation of functional groups within protein domains and their changes during chemical reactions determine the efficiency of biological processes. In this work on disordered solid-state electron-transfer proteins, it is demonstrated that the combination of pulsed high-field EPR spectroscopy at the W band (95 GHz, 3.4 T) with its extensions to PELDOR (pulsed electron-electron double resonance) and RIDME (relaxation-induced dipolar modulation enhancement) offers a powerful tool for obtaining not only information on the electronic structure of the redox partners but also on the three-dimensional structure of radical-pair systems with large interspin distances (up to about 5 nm). Strategies are discussed both in terms of data collection and data analysis to extract unique solutions for the full radical-pair structure with only a minimum of additional independent structural information. By this novel approach, the three-dimensional structure of laser-flash-induced t	2007	9	12	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Savitsky	A
17478721	10.1126/science.1140030	Protein dynamics control the kinetics of initial electron transfer in photosynthesis.	The initial electron transfer dynamics during photosynthesis have been studied in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers from wild type and 14 mutants in which the driving force and the kinetics of charge separation vary over a broad range. Surprisingly, the protein relaxation kinetics, as measured by tryptophan absorbance changes, are invariant in these mutants. By applying a reaction-diffusion model, we can fit the complex electron transfer kinetics of each mutant quantitatively, varying only the driving force. These results indicate that initial photosynthetic charge separation is limited by protein dynamics rather than by a static electron transfer barrier.	2007	5	21	Science	Science (New York, N.Y.)	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light; Models, Chemical; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Tryptophan	Wang	Haiyu
17477548	10.1021/bi700173w	Crystallographic location and mutational analysis of Zn and Cd inhibitory sites and role of lipidic carboxylates in rescuing proton path mutants in cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) transfers protons from the inner surface of the enzyme to the buried O2 reduction site through two different pathways, termed K and D, and from the outer surface via an undefined route. These proton paths can be inhibited by metals such as zinc or cadmium, but the sites of inhibition have not been established. Anomalous difference Fourier analyses of Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcO crystals, with cadmium added, reveal metal binding sites that include the proposed initial proton donor/acceptor of the K pathway, Glu-101 of subunit II. Mutant forms of CcO that lack Glu-101II (E101A and E101A/H96A) exhibit low activity and eliminate metal binding at this site. Significant activity is restored to E101A and E101A/H96A by adding the lipophilic carboxylic compounds, arachidonic acid and cholic acid, but not by their non-carboxylic analogues. These amphipathic acids likely provide their carboxylic groups as substitute proton donors/acceptors in the absence of Glu-101II, a	2007	7	6	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Cadmium; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Fatty Acids; Mutation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Qin	Ling
17434743	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2007.03.004	Formation and geminate quenching of singlet oxygen in purple bacterial reaction center.	The phosphorescence of singlet oxygen ((1)X( *)) photosensitized by the carotenoidless reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26.1 has been investigated, using H(2)O and D(2)O as the suspending media. To enhance (under neutral conditions) the triplet quantum yield of the special pair P(870) (P) by the radical pair mechanism, the quinone acceptor Q(A) was removed by means of a chemical treatment. The phosphorescence signal fits the functional form P(0)[exp (-t/tau)-exp(-t/zeta)], regardless of whether (1)X( *) is sensitized by P(dagger) or M(dagger) (where the dagger denotes triplet excitation and M is a water-soluble molecule). The time constant zeta was identified with the decay time of (1)X( *); when P(dagger) is the sensitizer, one finds zeta(P)((1))=3.3+/-0.3 micros, and zeta(P)((2))=34+/-3 micros, where the superscripts 1 and 2 refer to H(2)O and D(2)O, respectively; the corresponding values for sensitization by M(dagger) (in the absence of RC) are zeta(M)((1))=3.7+/-0.4	2007	7	25	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Deuterium Oxide; Free Radicals; Luminescent Measurements; Models, Theoretical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen; Water	Arellano	Juan B
17416676	10.1073/pnas.0611115104	Symmetry matters for the electronic structure of core complexes from Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX-.	Low-temperature (1.4 K), single-molecule fluorescence-excitation spectra have been recorded for individual reaction center-light-harvesting 1 complexes from Rhodopseudomonas palustris and the PufX(-) strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. More than 80% of the complexes from Rb. sphaeroides show only broad absorption bands, whereas nearly all of the complexes from Rps. palustris also have a narrow line at the low-energy end of their spectrum. We describe how the presence of this narrow feature indicates the presence of a gap in the electronic structure of the light-harvesting 1 complex from Rps. palustris, which provides strong support for the physical gap that was previously modeled in its x-ray crystal structure.	2007	6	6	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Richter	M F
17399741	10.1016/j.jmb.2007.02.087	The critical role of a hydrogen bond between Gln63 and Trp104 in the blue-light sensing BLUF domain that controls AppA activity.	AppA is a novel blue-light receptor that controls photosynthetic gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The photocycle reaction of the light-sensing domain, BLUF, is unique in the sense that a few hydrogen bond rearrangements are accompanied by only slight structural changes of the bound chromophore. However, the exact features of the hydrogen bond network around the active site are still the subject of some controversy. Here we present biochemical and genetic evidence showing that either Gln63 or Trp104 in the active site of the BLUF domain is crucial for light sensing, which in turn controls the antirepressor activity of AppA. Specifically, the Q63L and W104A mutants of AppA are insensitive to blue light in vivo and in vitro, and their activity is similar to that of the light-adapted wild-type AppA. Based on spectroscopic and structural information described previously, we conclude that light-dependent formation and breakage of the hydrogen bond between Gln6	2007	7	17	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glycine; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Light Signal Transduction; Models, Molecular; Phenotype; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tryptophan	Masuda	Shinji
17394306	10.1021/jp067834+	Mechanism of quinol oxidation by ferricenium produced by light excitation in reaction centers of photosynthetic bacteria.	The kinetics and thermodynamics of cyclic electron transfer through the isolated reaction center protein of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides were determined in detergent (Triton X-100) solution. The redox reactions between the reducing (ubiquinol-0 or ubiquinol-10) and oxidizing species (ferricenium, ferricytochrome, or ferricyanide) produced chemically or by light excitation of the protein were monitored by absorption changes of the reactants and by acidification of the solution accompanied with the disappearance of the quinol. The bimolecular rate constants of reactions of anionic ubiquinol-0 with different oxidizing agents showed large variation: 5 x 10(8) M(-1) s(-1) for ferricenium, 3.5 x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1) for ferricyanide, and 1.5 x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1) for ferricytochrome. Although the redox partners were created in pairs by the same protein promptly after light excitation, their bimolecular redox reaction was not observed even in the case of the fastest reacting pa	2007	6	4	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Cytochromes; Ferricyanides; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroquinones; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Milano	Francesco
17381130	10.1021/bi700297b	Steady-state FTIR spectra of the photoreduction of QA and QB in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers provide evidence against the presence of a proposed transient electron acceptor X between the two quinones.	In the reaction center (RC) of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, two ubiquinone molecules, QA and QB, play a pivotal role in the conversion of light energy into chemical free energy by coupling electron transfer to proton uptake. In native RCs, the transfer of an electron from QA to QB takes place in the time range of 5-200 micros. On the basis of time-resolved FTIR step-scan measurements in native RCs, a new and unconventional mechanism has been proposed in which QB- formation precedes QA- oxidation [Remy, A., and Gerwert, K. (2003) Nat. Struct. Biol. 10, 637-644]. The IR signature of the proposed transient intermediary electron acceptor (denoted X) operating between QA and QB has been recently measured by the rapid-scan technique in the DN(L210) mutant RCs, in which the QA to QB electron transfer is slowed 8-fold compared to that in native RCs. This IR signature has been reported as a difference spectrum involving states X+, X, QA, and QA- [Hermes, S., et al. (200	2007	7	5	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport; Light; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Ubiquinone	Breton	Jacques
17362499	10.1186/1472-6807-7-11	Crystal structures of an Extracytoplasmic Solute Receptor from a TRAP transporter in its open and closed forms reveal a helix-swapped dimer requiring a cation for alpha-keto acid binding.	The import of solutes into the bacterial cytoplasm involves several types of membrane transporters, which may be driven by ATP hydrolysis (ABC transporters) or by an ion or H+ electrochemical membrane potential, as in the tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic system (TRAP). In both the ABC and TRAP systems, a specific periplasmic protein from the ESR family (Extracytoplasmic Solute Receptors) is often involved for the recruitment of the solute and its presentation to the membrane complex. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, TakP (previously named SmoM) is an ESR from a TRAP transporter and binds alpha-keto acids in vitro. We describe the high-resolution crystal structures of TakP in its unliganded form and as a complex with sodium-pyruvate. The results show a limited "Venus flytrap" conformational change induced by substrate binding. In the liganded structure, a cation (most probably a sodium ion) is present and plays a key role in the association of the pyruvate to the protein. The structure	2007	4	5	BMC Struct Biol	BMC structural biology	Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Carrier Proteins; Cations; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Dimerization; Keto Acids; Membrane Transport Proteins; Protein Structure, Secondary; RNA-Binding Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Gonin	Sophie
17361996	10.1021/ic0619052	Interaction of product analogues with the active site of rhodobacter sphaeroides dimethyl sulfoxide reductase.	We report a structural characterization using X-ray absorption spectroscopy of Rhodobacter sphaeroides dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductase reduced with trimethylarsine and show that this is structurally analogous to the physiologically relevant dimethyl sulfide reduced DMSO reductase. Our data unambiguously indicate that these species should be regarded as formal MoIV species and indicate a classical coordination complex of trimethylarsine oxide, with no special structural distortions. The similarity of the trimethylarsine and dimethyl sulfide complexes suggests, in turn, that the dimethyl sulfide reduced enzyme possesses a classical coordination of DMSO with no special elongation of the S-O bond, as previously suggested.	2007	6	4	Inorg Chem	Inorganic chemistry	Arsenicals; Binding Sites; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Spectrum Analysis; Structure-Activity Relationship; X-Rays	George	Graham N
17351037	10.1128/JB.01795-06	Regulation of hydrogen peroxide-dependent gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: regulatory functions of OxyR.	Genome-wide transcriptome profiling was used to reveal hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-dependent regulatory mechanisms in the facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In this study we focused on the role of the OxyR protein, a known regulator of the H(2)O(2) response in bacteria. The transcriptome profiles of R. sphaeroides wild-type and oxyR mutant strains that were exposed to 1 mM H(2)O(2) for 7 min or were not exposed to H(2)O(2) were analyzed. Three classes of OxyR-dependent genes were identified based on their expression patterns in the wild type of oxyR mutant strains with differing predicted roles of oxidized and reduced OxyR as activators of transcription. DNA binding studies revealed that OxyR binds upstream of class I genes, which are induced by H(2)O(2) and exhibit similar basal levels of expression in the wild-type and oxyR mutant strains. The effect of OxyR on class II genes, which are also induced by H(2)O(2) but exhibit significantly lower basal level	2007	6	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Base Sequence; Consensus Sequence; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hydrogen Peroxide; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Oxidants; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Zeller	Tanja
17337707	10.1242/jeb.001800	The major vault protein is related to the toxic anion resistance protein (TelA) family.	Vaults are barrel-shaped ribonucleoprotein particles that are abundant in certain tumors and multidrug resistant cancer cells. Prokaryotic relatives of the major vault protein, MVP, have not been identified. We used sequence analysis and molecular modeling to show that MVP and the toxic anion resistance protein, TelA of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1, share a novel fold that consists of a three-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet. Because of this strong structural correspondence, we examined whether mammalian cell vaults respond to tellurite treatment. In the presence of the oxyanion tellurite, large vault aggregates, or vaultosomes, appear at the cell periphery in 15 min or less. Vaultosome formation is temperature-dependent, reversible, and occurs in normal human umbilical vein endothelial cells as well as transformed HeLa cervical cancer cells. Vaultosome formation is not restricted to tellurite and occurs in the presence of other toxic oxyanions (selenate, selinite, arsenate, ar	2007	5	24	J Exp Biol	The Journal of experimental biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Biopolymers; Cell Line, Transformed; Cytoplasmic Structures; Cytoskeleton; Endothelial Cells; HeLa Cells; Humans; Microtubules; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases; Prokaryotic Cells; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribonucleoproteins; Tellurium; Vault Ribonucleoprotein Particles	Suprenant	Kathy A
17335288	10.1021/bi0618060	Solution structure of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX membrane protein: implications for the quinone exchange and protein-protein interactions.	PufX membrane protein is found in Rhodobacter species of purple photosynthetic bacteria and has been known to play an essential role in ubiquinone/ubiquinol exchange between the reaction center and cytochrome bc1 complex and also contribute to the dimerization of the reaction center-light-harvesting core complex. We have determined the solution structure of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX using multidimensional NMR spectroscopy. The PufX, functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, forms a stable alpha helix consisting of 21 residues over the central transmembrane domain. The overall structure of the PufX is very similar to those of the LH1 alpha- and beta-polypeptides from Rhodospirillum rubrum and LH2 polypeptides. A short segment (Lys28-Gly35) rich in Gly and Ala residues revealed a relatively fast exchange between the backbone amide protons and deuteriums in the hydroxyl groups of the solvent, indicating that the backbone of this segment is more easily accessible to the surroundin	2007	5	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Motifs; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Wang	Zheng-Yu
17333171	10.1007/s00253-007-0887-y	5-Aminolevulinate production with recombinant Escherichia coli using a rare codon optimizer host strain.	The 5-aminolevulinate (ALA) synthase gene (hemA) containing several codons rarely used by Escherichia coli was cloned from the genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and optimized in two strains of Escherichia coli: BL21(DE3) and Rosetta(DE3), which is a rare codon optimizer strain. The effects of initial isopropyl-beta-D: -thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) concentration, induction time, and temperature on enzyme activity were studied and compared for two strains. The results indicated that the ALA synthase expressed by Rosetta(DE3)/pET-28a(+)-hemA was higher than that by BL21(DE3)/pET-28a(+)-hemA. The initial precursors, glycine and succinate, and initial glucose, which is an inhibitor for both ALA synthase and dehydratase, were observed to be the key factors affecting ALA production. ALA synthase activity was generally higher with Rosetta(DE3) than with BL21(DE3), so was ALA biosynthesis. Based on the optimal culture system using Rosetta(DE3), the yield of ALA achieved 3.8 g/l (29 mM) under th	2008	9	4	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Bioreactors; Codon; Escherichia coli; Fermentation; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Engineering; Glucose; Isopropyl Thiogalactoside; Temperature	Fu	Weiqi
17315985	10.1021/bi062154i	Brominated lipids identify lipid binding sites on the surface of the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	This study describes the use of brominated phospholipids to distinguish between lipid and detergent binding sites on the surface of a typical alpha-helical membrane protein. Reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were cocrystallized with added brominated phospholipids. X-ray structural analysis of these crystals has revealed the presence of two lipid binding sites from the characteristic strong X-ray scattering from the bromine atoms. These results demonstrate the usefulness of this approach to mapping lipid binding sites at the surface of membrane proteins.	2007	5	16	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Bromine; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Glycerophospholipids; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Roszak	Aleksander W
17293429	10.1128/JB.01681-06	A complete set of flagellar genes acquired by horizontal transfer coexists with the endogenous flagellar system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacteria swim in liquid environments by means of a complex rotating structure known as the flagellum. Approximately 40 proteins are required for the assembly and functionality of this structure. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two flagellar systems. One of these systems has been shown to be functional and is required for the synthesis of the well-characterized single subpolar flagellum, while the other was found only after the genome sequence of this bacterium was completed. In this work we found that the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides can be expressed and produces a functional flagellum. In many bacteria with two flagellar systems, one is required for swimming, while the other allows movement in denser environments by producing a large number of flagella over the entire cell surface. In contrast, the second flagellar system of R. sphaeroides produces polar flagella that are required for swimming. Expression of the second set of flagellar genes seems to be positively regulated u	2007	5	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Anaerobiosis; Flagella; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genes, Bacterial; Locomotion; Microscopy, Electron; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Poggio	Sebastian
17292850	10.1016/j.bbabio.2006.12.012	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization in the reaction center of the green sulphur bacterium Chlorobium tepidum observed by 13C MAS NMR.	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization has been observed in reaction centres of the green sulphur bacterium Chlorobium tepidum by (13)C magic-angle spinning solid-state NMR under continuous illumination with white light. An almost complete set of chemical shifts of the aromatic ring carbons of a BChl a molecule has been obtained. All light-induced (13)C NMR signals appear to be emissive, which is similar to the pattern observed in the reaction centers of plant photosystem I and purple bacterial reaction centres of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type. The donor in RCs of green sulfur bacteria clearly differs from the substantially asymmetric special pair of purple bacteria and appears to be similar to the more symmetric donor of photosystem I.	2007	8	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Carbon Isotopes; Chlorobi; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Roy	Esha
17276535	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2006.12.018	Molecular stochastic simulations of chromatophore vesicles from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A kinetic model is presented for photosynthetic processes under varying illumination based on the recently introduced steady state model of the photosynthetic chromatophore vesicles of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. A stochastic simulation system is built up from independent copies of the different transmembrane proteins, each encapsulating its own set of binding sites and internal states. The proteins are then connected through pools for each of the metabolites. A number of steady state and time-dependent scenarios are presented showing that even under steady state conditions the stochastic model exhibits a different behavior than a continuous description. We find that the electronic coupling between the light harvesting complexes increases the efficiency of the core complexes which eventually allows the bacteria to bridge short illumination outages at already lower light intensities. Some new experiments are proposed by which the DeltapH dependent characteristic of the	2007	6	14	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Bacterial Chromatophores; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stochastic Processes; Systems Biology	Geyer	Tihamer
17266267	10.1021/jp0674569	Do proteins at low temperature behave as glasses? A single-molecule study.	We have recorded long spectral diffusion trajectories from individual LH2 pigment-protein complexes from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 1.4 K. From these data, the spectral cumulants of the absorption lines of individual, protein-embedded BChl a pigments have been evaluated. It appears that the first and second cumulants cannot be described by the predictions of the well tested standard two-level system (TLS) model for spectral diffusion in glasses. The results of the present study clearly show that there is a fundamental difference between the relaxation behavior of our test protein and that of glasses.	2007	5	2	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Glass; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Temperature	Baier	J..rgen
17260947	10.1021/bi0619627	Monitoring the pH dependence of IR carboxylic acid signals upon Q(B)- formation in the Glu-L212 --&gt; Asp/Asp-L213 --&gt; Glu swap mutant reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, proton-coupled electron-transfer reactions occur at the secondary quinone (QB) site. Involved in the proton uptake steps are carboxylic acids, which have characteristic infrared vibrations in the 1770-1700 cm-1 spectral range that are sensitive to 1H/2H isotopic exchange. With respect to the native RC, a novel protonation pattern for carboxylic acids upon QB photoreduction has been identified in the Glu-L212 --&gt; Asp/Asp-L213 --&gt; Glu mutant RC using light-induced FTIR difference spectroscopy (Nabedryk, E., Breton, J., Okamura, M. Y., and Paddock, M. L. (2004) Biochemistry 43, 7236-7243). These carboxylic acids are structurally close and have been implicated in proton transfer to reduced QB. In this work, we extend previous studies by measuring the pH dependence of the QB-/QB FTIR difference spectra of the mutant in 1H2O and 2H2O. Large pH dependent changes were observed in the 1770-1700 c	2007	3	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Aspartic Acid; Carboxylic Acids; Deuterium Exchange Measurement; Electron Transport; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Nabedryk	Eliane
17253777	10.1021/bi062094g	Effect of mutations in the cytochrome b ef loop on the electron-transfer reactions of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein in the cytochrome bc1 complex.	Long-range movement of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) between the cytochrome (cyt) b and cyt c1 redox centers plays a key role in electron transfer within the cyt bc1 complex. A series of 21 mutants in the cyt b ef loop of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cyt bc1 were prepared to examine the role of this loop in controlling the capture and release of the ISP from cyt b. Electron transfer in the cyt bc1 complex was studied using a ruthenium dimer to rapidly photo-oxidize cyt c1 within 1 mus and initiate the reaction. The rate constant for electron transfer from the Rieske iron-sulfur center [2Fe2S] to cyt c1 was k1 = 60 000 s-1. Famoxadone binding to the Qo site decreases k1 to 5400 s-1, indicating that a conformational change on the surface of cyt b decreases the rate of release of the ISP from cyt b. The mutation I292A on the surface of the ISP-binding crater decreased k1 to 4400 s-1, while the addition of famoxadone further decreased it to 3000 s-1. The mutation L286A at the tip of the 	2007	3	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cytochromes b; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Organometallic Compounds; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ruthenium	Rajagukguk	Sany
17245554	10.1007/s10529-006-9303-4	Biosynthesis of intracellular 5-aminolevulinic acid by a newly identified halotolerant Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Of 23 strains of halotolerant (up to 12% w/v NaCl) photosynthetic bacteria isolated from various sources, one isolate, SH5, accumulated intracellular 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) at 0.45 microg/g dry cell wt (DCW) growing aerobically in the dark. The strain was identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides using 16S rDNA sequencing. Biosynthesis of ALA was enhanced to 14 microg/g DCW using modified glutamate/glucose (50 mM) medium with the addition of 10 mM levulinic acid after 24 h cultivation. Addition of 30 microM Fe(2+) to this medium increased the yield to 226 microg/g DCW.	2007	8	27	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Aminolevulinic Acid; Base Sequence; Culture Media; DNA, Ribosomal; Genes, Bacterial; Iron; Levulinic Acids; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Tangprasittipap	Amornrat
17228920	10.1021/jp064973i	Cytochrome c(2) Exit Strategy: Dissociation Studies and Evolutionary Implications.	Small, water-soluble, type c cytochromes form a transient network connecting major bioenergetic membrane protein complexes in both photosynthesis and respiration. In the photosynthesis cycle of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, cytochrome c2 (cyt c2) docks to the reaction center (RC), undergoes electron transfer, and exits for the cytochrome bc1 complex. Translations of cyt c2 about the RC-cyt c2 docking interface and surrounding membrane reveal possible exit pathways. A pathway at a minimal elevation allowed by the architecture of the RC is analyzed using both an all-atom steered molecular dynamics simulation of the RC-cyt c2 complex and a bioinformatic analysis of the structures and sequences of cyt c. The structure-based phylogenetic analysis allows for the identification of structural elements that have evolved to satisfy the requirements of having multiple functional partners. The patterns of evolutionary variation obtained from the phylogenetic analysis of both docking partners of cyt c2 	2007	5	1	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteria; Biological Evolution; Chemical Phenomena; Chemistry, Physical; Computational Biology; Computer Simulation; Cytochromes c2; Electrochemistry; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis; Phylogeny; Poisson Distribution	Pogorelov	Taras V
17218012	10.1016/j.plasmid.2006.11.004	pPSX: a novel vector for the cloning and heterologous expression of antitumor antibiotic gene clusters.	A cosmid cloning vector has been constructed that demonstrates high levels of segregational stability in Escherichia coli K12. pPSX is a 14-kilobase vector derived from the IncW plasmid pR388. pPSX is highly stable in E. coli in the absence of antibiotic selection, even while expressing the toxic indolocarbazole antitumor antibiotic violacein. The incorporation of the lambdacos sequence enables construction of cosmid libraries with inserts ranging from 24 to 36kb. The inclusion of a lacZalpha multiple cloning site (MCS) allows blue/white screening. pPSX cosmids can be extracted from the host cell with commercial plasmid extraction kits facilitating downstream analysis, sequencing and sub-cloning. pPSX can be transferred to a variety of heterologous hosts by either electroporation or mobilization from E. coli S17-1. While it is unstable in non-E. coli hosts without antibiotic selection, heterologous host strains such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Pseudomonas stutzeri will maintain the 	2007	8	1	Plasmid	Plasmid	Antibiotics, Antineoplastic; Antineoplastic Agents; Cloning, Molecular; Conjugation, Genetic; Cosmids; Cyclotides; Escherichia coli K12; Genetic Vectors; Multigene Family; Plasmids; Pseudomonas stutzeri; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sarovich	Derek S
17209035	10.1128/JB.01699-06	The AppA and PpsR proteins from Rhodobacter sphaeroides can establish a redox-dependent signal chain but fail to transmit blue-light signals in other bacteria.	The AppA protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides has the unique ability to sense and transmit redox and light signals. In response to decreasing oxygen tension, AppA antagonizes the transcriptional regulator PpsR, which represses the expression of photosynthesis genes, including the puc operon. This mechanism, which is based on direct protein-protein interaction, is prevented by blue-light absorption of the BLUF domain located in the N-terminal part of AppA. In order to test whether AppA and PpsR are sufficient to transmit redox and light signals, we expressed these proteins in three different bacterial species and monitored oxygen- and blue-light-dependent puc expression either directly or by using a luciferase-based reporter construct. The AppA/PpsR system could mediate redox-dependent gene expression in the alphaproteobacteria Rhodobacter capsulatus and Paracoccus denitrificans but not in the gammaproteobacterium Escherichia coli. Analysis of a prrA mutant strain of R. sphaeroides strong	2007	4	3	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Escherichia coli; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Paracoccus denitrificans; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Trans-Activators	J..ger	Andreas
17203250	10.1007/s00216-006-0981-5	Multivariate curve resolution of rapid-scan FTIR difference spectra of quinone photoreduction in bacterial photosynthetic membranes.	Photosynthetic reaction centres and membranes are systems of particular interest and are often taken as models to investigate the molecular mechanisms of selected bioenergetic reactions. In this work, a multivariate curve resolution by alternating least squares procedure is detailed for resolution of time-resolved difference FTIR spectra probing the evolution of quinone reduction in photosynthetic membranes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides under photoexcitation. For this purpose, different data sets were acquired in the same time range and spectroscopic domain under slightly different experimental conditions. To enable resolution and provide meaningful results the different data sets were arranged in an augmented matrix. This strategy enabled recovery of three different species despite rank-deficiency conditions. It also results in better definition (identity and evolution) of the contributions. From the resolved spectra, the species have been attributed to: 1. the formation of ubiquinol, 	2007	5	22	Anal Bioanal Chem	Analytical and bioanalytical chemistry	Algorithms; Benzoquinones; Light; Multivariate Analysis; Oxidation-Reduction; Pattern Recognition, Automated; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Purple Membrane; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Blanchet	L
17198404	10.1021/ic061695t	X-ray absorption spectroscopic characterization of the molybdenum site of Escherichia coli dimethyl sulfoxide reductase.	Structural studies of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductases were hampered by modification of the active site during purification. We report an X-ray absorption spectroscopic analysis of the molybdenum active site of Escherichia coli DMSO reductase contained within its native membranes. The enzyme in these preparations is expected to be very close to the form found in vivo. The oxidized active site was found to have four Mo-S ligands at 2.43 A, one Mo=O at 1.71 A, and a longer Mo-O at 1.90 A. We conclude that the oxidized enzyme is a monooxomolybdenum(VI) species coordinated by two molybdopterin dithiolenes and a serine. The bond lengths determined for E. coli DMSO reductase are very similar to those determined for the well-characterized Rhodobacter sphaeroides DMSO reductase, suggesting similar active site structures for the two enzymes. Furthermore, our results suggest that the form found in vivo is the monooxobis(molybdopterin) species.	2007	3	13	Inorg Chem	Inorganic chemistry	Binding Sites; Escherichia coli; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Molecular Structure; Molybdenum; Oxidoreductases; Spectrum Analysis; X-Rays	George	Graham N
16752956	10.1562/2006-01-30-RA-789	Overexpression and characterization of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX membrane protein in Escherichia coli.	Heterologous expression of the PufX membrane protein from purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was attempted by using Escherichia (E.) coli cells. The PufX was overexpressed as a recombinant protein with a histidine tag added to the carboxyl terminus, and can be extracted from the cell membrane by various detergents. Circular dichroism measurements showed that the expressed PufX protein had alpha-helix contents of 29% in organic solvents and 22-26% in 0.8-2.0% (w/v) n-octyl beta-D-glucopyranoside solutions, suggesting that the PufX contains a substantial alpha-helical region composed of 18-22 amino acids. The PufX expressed in E. coli was examined by reconstitution experiments with LH1 alpha- and beta-polypeptides and bacteriochlorophyll a. It was shown that the PufX inhibited not only the reconstitution of the LH1 complex, but also the formation of the B820 subunit type complex at high concentrations, indicating that the expressed PufX is biologically active. Large-	2007	7	24	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Amino Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Base Sequence; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Circular Dichroism; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glucosides; Histidine; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Onodera	Shiho
19367872	10.1021/jp803439w	Static and dynamic protein impact on electronic properties of light-harvesting complex LH2.	A comparative analysis of the temperature dependence of the absorption spectra of the LH2 complexes from different species of photosynthetic bacteria, i.e., Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodoblastus acidophilus, and Phaeospirillum molischianum, was performed in the temperature range from 4 to 300 K. Qualitatively, the temperature dependence is similar for all of the species studied. The spectral bandwidths of both B800 and B850 bands increases with temperature while the band positions shift in opposite directions: the B800 band shifts slightly to the red while the B850 band to the blue. These results were analyzed using the modified Redfield theory based on the exciton model. The main conclusion drawn from the analysis was that the spectral density function (SDF) is the main factor underlying the strength of the temperature dependence of the bandwidths for the B800 and B850 electronic transitions, while the bandwidths themselves are defined by the corresponding inhomogeneous distribution f	2009	5	12	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bradyrhizobiaceae; Electronics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillaceae; Temperature	Zerlauskiene	O
19198073		[Isolation and purification of malate dehydrogenase isoforms from phototrophic purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris].	A five-step procedure was used to obtain electrophoretically pure preparations of malate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.37) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris. The procedure included extraction, ammonium sulfate fractionation, gel filtration, and ion exchange and gel permeation chromatography. The enzyme was found to exist in two isoforms, dimeric and tetrameric, formed by the oligomerization of identical subunits. The isoforms are assumed to be involved in different metabolic processes.	2009	2	25	Izv Akad Nauk Ser Biol	Izvestiia Akademii nauk. Seriia biologicheskaia	Dimerization; Isoenzymes; Malate Dehydrogenase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas	Eprintsev	A T
19084011	10.1016/j.febslet.2008.12.006	Growth arrest of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 by superoxide generated from heterologously expressed Rhodobacter sphaeroides chlorophyllide a reductase.	The photosynthetic growth of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 ceased upon expression of Rhodobacter sphaeroides chlorophyllide a reductase (COR). However, an increase in cytosolic superoxide dismutase level in the recombinant Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 completely reversed the growth cessation. This demonstrates that COR generates superoxide in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. Considering the dissolved oxygen (DO) level suitable for COR, the intracellular DO of this oxygenic photosynthetic cell appears to be low enough to support COR-mediated superoxide generation. The growth arrest of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 by COR may give an insight into the evolutionary path from bacteriochlorophyll a biosynthetic pathway to chlorophyll a, which bypasses COR reaction.	2009	3	10	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Evolution, Molecular; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-CH Group Donors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides; Synechocystis	Kim	Eui-Jin
19077171	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2008.06558.x	Protein-protein interactions between CbbR and RegA (PrrA), transcriptional regulators of the cbb operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	CbbR and RegA (PrrA) are transcriptional regulators of the cbb(I) and cbb(II) (Calvin-Benson-Bassham CO(2) fixation pathway) operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Both proteins interact specifically with promoter sequences of the cbb operons. RegA has four DNA binding sites within the cbb(I) promoter region, with the CbbR binding site and RegA binding site 1 overlapping each other. This study demonstrated that CbbR and RegA interact and form a discrete complex in vitro, as illustrated by gel mobility shift experiments, direct isolation of the proteins from DNA complexes, and chemical cross-linking analyses. For CbbR/RegA interactions to occur, CbbR must be bound to the DNA, with the ability of CbbR to bind the cbb(I) promoter enhanced by RegA. Conversely, interactions with CbbR did not require RegA to bind the cbb(I) promoter. RegA itself formed incrementally larger multimeric complexes with DNA as the concentration of RegA increased. The presence of RegA binding sites 1, 2 and 3 promote	2009	2	9	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Operon; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Dangel	Andrew W
19074284	10.1073/pnas.0805429106	Vectorial proton transfer coupled to reduction of O2 and NO by a heme-copper oxidase.	The heme-copper oxidase (HCuO) superfamily consists of integral membrane proteins that catalyze the reduction of either oxygen or nitric oxide. The HCuOs that reduce O(2) to H(2)O couple this reaction to the generation of a transmembrane proton gradient by using electrons and protons from opposite sides of the membrane and by pumping protons from inside the cell or organelle to the outside. The bacterial NO-reductases (NOR) reduce NO to N(2)O (2NO + 2e(-) + 2H(+) --&gt; N(2)O + H(2)O), a reaction as exergonic as that with O(2). Yet, in NOR both electrons and protons are taken from the outside periplasmic solution, thus not conserving the free energy available. The cbb(3)-type HCuOs catalyze reduction of both O(2) and NO. Here, we have investigated energy conservation in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cbb(3) oxidase during reduction of either O(2) or NO. Whereas O(2) reduction is coupled to buildup of a substantial electrochemical gradient across the membrane, NO reduction is not. This mea	2009	1	27	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Catalysis; Energy Metabolism; Heme; Membrane Proteins; Nitric Oxide; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Huang	Yafei
19054232	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2008.04007.x	Soluble proteome investigation of cobalt effect on the carotenoidless mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	To investigate the surviving capability of Rhodobacter sphaeroides under phototrophic conditions in the presence of high cobalt concentration and its influence on the photosynthetic apparatus biosynthesis. Cells from R. sphaeroides strain R26.1 were grown anaerobically in a medium containing 5.0 mmol l(-1) cobalt ions and in a control medium. Metal toxicity was investigated comparing the soluble proteome of Co(2+)-exposed cells and cells grown in control medium by two-dimensional gel electrophoretic analysis. Significant changes in the expression level were detected for 43 proteins, the majority (35) being up-regulated. The enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD) was found down-regulated and its activity was investigated. The up-regulated enzymes mainly belong to the general category of proteins and DNA degradation enzymes, suggesting that part of the catabolic reaction products can rescue bacterial growth in photosynthetically impaired cells. Furthermore, the down-regulation of PBGD s	2010	2	22	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cobalt; Down-Regulation; Electrophoresis, Agar Gel; Hydroxymethylbilane Synthase; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pisani	F
19053264	10.1021/bi801675a	Interaction between cytochrome c2 and the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: role of interprotein hydrogen bonds in binding and electron transfer.	The role of short-range hydrogen bond interactions at the interface between electron transfer proteins cytochrome c(2) (cyt) and the reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied by mutation (to Ala) of RC residues Asn M187, Asn M188, and Gln L258 which form interprotein hydrogen bonds to cyt in the cyt-RC complex. The largest decrease in binding constant K(A) (8-fold) for a single mutation was observed for Asn M187, which forms an intraprotein hydrogen bond to the key residue Tyr L162 in the center of the contact region with a low solvent accessibility. Interaction between Asn M187 and Tyr L162 was also implicated in binding by double mutation of the two residues. The hydrogen bond mutations did not significantly change the second-order rate constant, k(2), indicating the mutations did not change the association rate for formation of the cyt-RC complex but increased the dissociation rate. The first-order electron transfer rate, k(e), for the cyt-RC complex was reduced 	2009	1	29	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Interaction Mapping; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Abresch	Edward C
19036599	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2008.10.003	Serine in BLUF domains displays spectral importance in computational models.	The BLUF (blue-light sensing using flavine) domain of the AppA photoreceptor protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was modelled by using quantum chemical chromophore plus amino acid models at the (TD-)B3LYP/6-31G * level of theory. The models were based on NMR structures, and further refined by CHARMM force field molecular dynamics simulations. The goal is to explain the total redshift by about 10nm in the UV/Vis spectra of BLUF domains after illumination, and to relate it to structural changes. For this purpose UV/Vis spectra of the available NMR structures were calculated and related to geometrical features. In particular, the hydrogen network embedding the central chromophore is discussed. Specifically, the position of a conserved glutamine, Q63, is found to be important in agreement with findings from previous works. Additionally, however, we find a systematic dependence also on the geometry of a conserved serine, S41. Based on a series of calculations with known structures and with	2009	5	29	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Conserved Sequence; Flavoproteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Serine; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	G..tze	Jan
19028901	10.1128/JB.01565-08	Complete genome sequence of Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a purple nonsulfur photosynthetic bacterium that is considered a possible source of H(2) production. R. sphaeroides KD131, which was isolated from sea mud in South Korea, was found to produce high levels of H(2). Here we report the complete and annotated genome sequence of R. sphaeroides KD131.	2009	4	2	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	DNA, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Lim	Si-Kyu
19024567	10.1134/s1607672908050177	Primary charge separation in the reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants L153HY and L153HY+M182HL.	NA	2008	12	30	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Energy Transfer; Light; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Khatypov	R A
19020080	10.1073/pnas.0808010105	A bifunctional kinase-phosphatase in bacterial chemotaxis.	Phosphorylation-based signaling pathways employ dephosphorylation mechanisms for signal termination. Histidine to aspartate phosphosignaling in the two-component system that controls bacterial chemotaxis has been studied extensively. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a complex chemosensory pathway with multiple homologues of the Escherichia coli chemosensory proteins, although it lacks homologues of known signal-terminating CheY-P phosphatases, such as CheZ, CheC, FliY or CheX. Here, we demonstrate that an unusual CheA homologue, CheA(3), is not only a phosphodonor for the principal CheY protein, CheY(6), but is also is a specific phosphatase for CheY(6)-P. This phosphatase activity accelerates CheY(6)-P dephosphorylation to a rate that is comparable with the measured stimulus response time of approximately 1 s. CheA(3) possesses only two of the five domains found in classical CheAs, the Hpt (P1) and regulatory (P5) domains, which are joined by a 794-amino acid sequence that is required for 	2009	1	7	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Chemotaxis; Dimerization; Kinetics; Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases; Phosphorylation; Phosphotransferases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Porter	Steven L
19006326	10.1021/bi801058r	Crystal structure of the L protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides light-independent protochlorophyllide reductase with MgADP bound: a homologue of the nitrogenase Fe protein.	The L protein (BchL) of the dark-operative protochlorophyllide reductase (DPOR) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been purified from an Azotobacter vinelandii expression system; its interaction with nucleotides has been examined, and the X-ray structure of the protein has been determined with bound MgADP to 1.6 A resolution. DPOR catalyzes the reduction of protochlorophyllide to chlorophyllide, a reaction critical to the biosynthesis of bacteriochlorophylls. The DPOR holoenzyme is comprised of two component proteins, the dimeric BchL protein and the heterotetrameric BchN/BchB protein. The DPOR component proteins share significant overall similarities with the nitrogenase Fe protein (NifH) and the MoFe (NifDK) protein, the enzyme system responsible for reduction of dinitrogen to ammonia. Here, BchL was expressed in A. vinelandii and purified to homogeneity using an engineered polyhistidine tag. The purified, recombinant BchL was found to contain 3.6 mol of Fe/mol of BchL homodimer, consi	2009	3	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Adenosine Diphosphate; Binding Sites; Biological Assay; Catalysis; Crystallography, X-Ray; Dimerization; Histidine; Iron; Light; Nitrogenase; Nucleotides; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-CH Group Donors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Sarma	Ranjana
19006273	10.1021/jp807092y	Major Mo(V) EPR signature of Rhodobacter sphaeroides periplasmic nitrate reductase arising from a dead-end species that activates upon reduction. Relation to other molybdoenzymes from the DMSO reductase family.	Enzymes of the DMSO reductase family use a mononuclear Mo-bis(molybdopterin) cofactor (MoCo) to catalyze a variety of oxo-transfer reactions. Much functional information on nitrate reductase, one of the most studied members of this family, has been gained from EPR spectroscopy, but this technique is not always conclusive because the signature of the MoCo is heterogeneous, and which signals correspond to active species is still unsure. We used site-directed mutagenesis, EPR and protein film voltammetry to demonstrate that the MoCo in R. sphaeroides periplasmic nitrate reductase (NapAB) is subject to an irreversible reductive activation process whose kinetics we precisely define. This activation quantitatively correlates with the disappearance of the so-called "Mo(V) high-g" EPR signal, but this reductive process is too slow to be part of the normal catalytic cycle. Therefore, in NapAB, this most intense and most commonly observed signature of the MoCo arises from a dead-end, inactive st	2009	3	13	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Adsorption; Algorithms; Electrochemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Microwaves; Molybdenum; Mutation; Nitrate Reductase; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Potentiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Fourmond	Vincent
19003427	10.1007/s10482-008-9290-7	Functional analysis of a large non-conserved region of FlgK (HAP1) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The single subpolar flagellum of Rhodobacter sphaeroides shows an enlarged hook-filament junction. One of the two proteins that compose this section of the filament is HAP1(Rs) (FlgK(Rs)) it contains a central non-conserved region of 860 amino acids that makes this protein about three times larger than its homologue in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. We investigated the role of this central portion of the unusually large HAP1 protein of R. sphaeroides by monitoring the effects of serial deletions in flgK (Rs) , the gene encoding HAP1(Rs), on swimming and swarming. Two deletion mutants did not assemble functional flagella, two were paralyzed and five exhibited reduced free-swimming speeds. Some mutants produced unusual swarming patterns on soft agar without or with Ficoll 400. A segment of approximately 200-aa of the central region of HAP1(Rs) that aligns with the variable region of the flagellin sequence from other gamma- and beta-proteobacteria was also found. Therefore, it i	2008	12	12	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek	Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Bacterial Proteins; Conserved Sequence; Flagella; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion	Castillo	David J
18978062	10.1128/JB.00925-08	RpoH(II) activates oxidative-stress defense systems and is controlled by RpoE in the singlet oxygen-dependent response in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic organisms need defense systems against photooxidative stress caused by the generation of highly reactive singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)). Here we show that the alternative sigma factor RpoH(II) is required for the expression of important defense factors and that deletion of rpoH(II) leads to increased sensitivity against exposure to (1)O(2) and methylglyoxal in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The gene encoding RpoH(II) is controlled by RpoE, and thereby a sigma factor cascade is constituted. We provide the first in vivo study that identifies genes controlled by an RpoH(II)-type sigma factor, which is widely distributed in the Alphaproteobacteria. RpoH(II)-dependent genes encode oxidative-stress defense systems, including proteins for the degradation of methylglyoxal, detoxification of peroxides, (1)O(2) scavenging, and redox and iron homeostasis. Our experiments indicate that glutathione (GSH)-dependent mechanisms are involved in the defense against photooxidative stress in photosynth	2009	2	3	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Escherichia coli; Gene Deletion; Genetic Complementation Test; Heat-Shock Proteins; Light; Mutagenesis; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen	Nuss	Aaron M
18959753	10.1111/j.1742-4658.2008.06694.x	Heavy metal ions inhibit molybdoenzyme activity by binding to the dithiolene moiety of molybdopterin in Escherichia coli.	Molybdenum insertion into the dithiolene group on the 6-alkyl side-chain of molybdopterin is a highly specific process that is catalysed by the MoeA and MogA proteins in Escherichia coli. Ligation of molybdate to molybdopterin generates the molybdenum cofactor, which can be inserted directly into molybdoenzymes binding the molybdopterin form of the molybdenum cofactor, or is further modified in bacteria to form the dinucleotide form of the molybdenum cofactor. The ability of various metals to bind tightly to sulfur-rich sites raised the question of whether other metal ions could be inserted in place of molybdenum at the dithiolene moiety of molybdopterin in molybdoenzymes. We used the heterologous expression systems of human sulfite oxidase and Rhodobacter sphaeroides dimethylsulfoxide reductase in E. coli to study the incorporation of different metal ions into the molybdopterin site of these enzymes. From the added metal-containing compounds Na(2)MoO(4), Na(2)WO(4), NaVO(3), Cu(NO(3))	2008	12	10	FEBS J	The FEBS journal	Binding Sites; Coenzymes; Escherichia coli; Humans; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Metalloproteins; Metals, Heavy; Molybdenum; Molybdenum Cofactors; Oxidoreductases; Pteridines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfite Oxidase; Sulfurtransferases; Tungsten Compounds	Neumann	Meina
18953640	10.1007/s10863-008-9180-8	The road to the crystal structure of the cytochrome bc1 complex from the anoxigenic, photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The advantages of using bacterial systems to study the mechanism and function of cytochrome bc (1) complexes do not extend readily to their structural investigations. High quality crystals of bacterial complexes have been difficult to obtain despite the enzymes' smaller sizes and simpler subunit compositions compared to their mitochondrial counterparts. In the course of the structure determination of the bc (1) complex from R. sphaeroides, we observed that the growth of only low quality crystals correlated with low activity and stability of the purified complex, which was mitigated in part by introducing a double mutations to the enzyme. The S287R(cyt b)/V135S(ISP) mutant shows 40% increase in electron transfer activity and displays a 4.3 degrees C increase in thermal stability over wild-type enzyme. The amino acid histidine was found important in maintaining structural integrity of the bacterial complex, while the respiratory inhibitors such as stigmatellin are required for immobiliza	2009	2	20	J Bioenerg Biomembr	Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes	Anisotropy; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex III; Enzyme Stability; Histidine; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Strontium	Xia	Di
18948077	10.1016/j.bbabio.2008.09.010	Organisation and function of the Phaeospirillum molischianum photosynthetic apparatus.	We have investigated the organisation of the photosynthetic apparatus in Phaeospirillum molischianum, using biochemical fractionation and functional kinetic measurements. We show that only a fraction of the ATP-synthase is present in the membrane regions which contain most of the photosynthetic apparatus and that, despite its complicated stacked structure, the intracytoplasmic membrane delimits a single connected space. We find that the diffusion time required for a quinol released by the reaction centre to reach a cytochrome bc1 complex is about 260 ms. On the other hand, the reduction of the cytochrome c chain by the cytochrome bc1 complex in the presence of a reduced quinone pool occurs with a time constant of about 5 ms. The overall turnover time of the cyclic electron transfer is about 25 ms in vivo under steady-state illumination. The sluggishness of the quinone shuttle appears to be compensated, at least in part, by the size of the quinone pool. Together, our results show that P	2009	2	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Cytochromes c; Diffusion; Electron Transport Complex III; Electrons; Hydroquinones; Intracellular Membranes; Kinetics; Light; Membrane Potentials; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasm; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodospirillaceae; Subcellular Fractions	Mascle-Allemand	Camille
18939793	10.1021/jp8058799	Excitation wavelength dependence of primary charge separation in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The excitation wavelength dependence of the initial electron transfer rate in both wild type and mutant reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied between 840 and 920 nm as a function of temperature (10-295 K). The dynamics of primary charge separation show no resolvable excitation wavelength dependence at room temperature over this spectral range. A small variation in rate with excitation wavelength is observed at cryogenic temperatures. The low temperature results cannot be explained in terms either of a nonequilibrium model that assumes that the primary charge separation starts from a vibrationally hot state or a model that assumes a static inhomogeneous distribution of electron transfer driving forces. Instead these results are consistent with the concept that primary charge separation kinetics are controlled by the dynamics of protein conformational diffusion.	2009	1	26	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Wang	Haiyu
18931128	10.1128/JB.01094-08	Hierarchical regulation of photosynthesis gene expression by the oxygen-responsive PrrBA and AppA-PpsR systems of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the facultatively phototrophic proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, formation of the photosynthetic apparatus is oxygen dependent. When oxygen tension decreases, the response regulator PrrA of the global two-component PrrBA system is believed to directly activate transcription of the puf, puh, and puc operons, encoding structural proteins of the photosynthetic complexes, and to indirectly upregulate the photopigment biosynthesis genes bch and crt. Decreased oxygen also results in inactivation of the photosynthesis-specific repressor PpsR, bringing about derepression of the puc, bch, and crt operons. We uncovered a hierarchical relationship between these two regulatory systems, earlier thought to function independently. We also more accurately assessed the spectrum of gene targets of the PrrBA system. First, expression of the appA gene, encoding the PpsR antirepressor, is PrrA dependent, which establishes one level of hierarchical dominance of the PrrBA system over AppA-PpsR. Sec	2008	12	8	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genes, Regulator; Mutation; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Phototrophic Processes; Plasmids; RNA, Bacterial; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic; Transcriptional Activation	Gomelsky	Larissa
18923551	10.1139/w08-071	Purification and characterization of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine oxidative deaminase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5.	An enzyme involved in the catabolism of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) was isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5. The enzyme catalyzes the formation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpyruvic acid (DOPP) and ammonia from DOPA. Formation of ammonia by DOPA oxidative deaminase was O2 dependent and the enzyme isolated to its homogeneity has 100% affinity for DOPA. DOPA oxidative deaminase is functional at low concentrations of the substrate (&lt; 100 micromol.L(-1)) and is independent of NADH. The molecular mass of the purified enzyme is approximately 190 kDa and the enzyme could be a pentamer of 54, 42, 34, 25, and 23 kDa subunits as determined by SDS-PAGE.	2009	1	13	Can J Microbiol	Canadian journal of microbiology	Ammonia-Lyases; Bacterial Proteins; Dihydroxyphenylalanine; Kinetics; Molecular Weight; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Ranjith	N K
27857572	10.2142/biophysics.4.19	Correlation between square of electron tunneling matrix element and donor-acceptor distance in fluctuating protein media.	Correlation between fluctuations of the square of electron tunneling matrix element TDA<sup>2</sup> and the donor-acceptor distance RDA in the electron transfer (ET) reaction from bacteriopheophytin anion to the primary quinone of the reaction center in the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides is investigated by a combined study of molecular dynamics simulations of the protein conformation fluctuation and quantum chemical calculations. We adopted two kinds of RDA ; edge-to-edge distance REE and center-to-center distance RCC . The value of TDA<sup>2</sup> distributed over more than 5 orders of magnitude and the fluctuation of the value of RDA distributed over more than 1.8 .. for the 10<sup>6</sup> instantaneous conformations of 1 ns simulation. We made analysis of the time-averaged correlation step by step as follows. We divide the 10<sup>6</su	2020	9	30	Biophysics (Nagoya-shi)	Biophysics (Nagoya-shi, Japan)	Dutton law; donor-acceptor distance; electron transfer rate; photosynthetic reaction center; protein fluctuation	Nishioka	Hirotaka
18850303	10.1007/s11033-008-9370-9	Heterologous synthesis and assembly of functional LHII antenna complexes from Rhodovulum sulfidophilum in Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant.	The light harvesting complexes, including LHII and LHI, are the important components of photosynthetic apparatus. Rhodovulum (Rdv.) sulfidophilum and Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides belong to two genera of photosynthetic bacteria, and they are very different in some physiological characteristics and light harvesting complexes structure. The LHII structural genes (pucBsAs) from Rdv. sulfidophilum and the LHI structural genes (pufBA) from R. sphaeroides were amplified, and cloned into an expression vector controlled by puc promoter from R. sphaeroides, which was then introduced into LHI and LHII-minus R. sphaeroides mutants; the transconjugant strains synthesized heterologous LHII and native LHI complexes, which played normal roles in R. sphaeroides. The Rdv. sulfidophilum LHII complex from pucBsAs had near-infrared absorption bands at ~801-853 nm in R. sphaeroides, and was able to transfer energy efficiently to the native LHI complex. The results show that the pucBsAs genes from Rdv. sulfi	2009	10	1	Mol Biol Rep	Molecular biology reports	Amino Acid Sequence; Apoproteins; Cell Membrane; Conjugation, Genetic; Energy Transfer; Genetic Vectors; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodovulum; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Wang	Wanneng
18847236	10.1021/jp806309p	Theoretical investigation of the electronic asymmetry of the special pair cation radical in the photosynthetic type-II reaction center.	The electronic asymmetry of the special pair cation radical in the photosynthetic reaction center was studied, using density functional calculations with a polarizable continuum model and a point charge model as the protein environment. The calculated spin density distribution between the halves of the special pair from Rhodobacter sphaeroides agreed well with the experimental value due to the protein polarity effect. The differences in the specific orientations of the ester carbonyl groups of the phytyl groups, as well as the methyl ester groups, are one of the origins of the electronic asymmetry. The orientations of these groups are specific, as revealed by the 14 recent X-ray structures of a variety of type-II reaction centers, with a few exceptions. In addition to the spin density distributions of the special pair cation radical from other species, the structural features of the protein surrounding these groups of a variety of type-II reaction centers were investigated to elucidate	2008	12	17	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Cations; Computer Simulation; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electrons; Free Radicals; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodopseudomonas	Yamasaki	Hideki
18847224	10.1021/bi801026g	Correlating ultrafast function with structure in single crystals of the photosynthetic reaction center.	Femtosecond transient absorbance spectroscopy was applied to the study of primary electron transfer in single reaction center crystals from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Polarized transient absorption spectra of individual crystals are shown to correlate with polarized ground-state absorption spectra and to track cofactor transition moment directions calculated from the crystallographic structure. Electron transfer from the bacteriochlorophyll dimer to the bacteriopheophytin acceptor was found to be multiphasic in crystals and approximately 2-fold slower than in solution. This work demonstrates the ability to resolve ultrafast photosynthetic function in single crystals and allows ultrafast function to be directly correlated with structure.	2008	11	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Multiprotein Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Spectrophotometry; Thermodynamics	Huang	Libai
18840436	10.1016/j.febslet.2008.09.048	Spectrally silent light induced conformation change in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Spectrally silent conformation change after photoexcitation of photosynthetic reaction centers isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 was observed by the optical heterodyne transient grating technique. The signal showed spectrally silent structural change in photosynthetic reaction centers followed by the primary P+BPh- charge separation and this change remains even after the charge recombination. Without bound quinone to the RC, the conformation change relaxes with about 28micros lifetime. The presence of quinone at the primary quinone (QA) site may suppress this conformation change. However, a weak relaxation with 30-40micros lifetime is still observed under the presence of QA, which increases up to 40micros as a function of the occupancy of the secondary quinone (QB) site.	2008	12	10	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Benzoquinones; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Nagy	L..szl..
18839075	10.1007/s12010-008-8372-3	Cytotoxic activities of extracts and compounds from Viscum coloratum and its transformation products by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The bioassay-oriented fractionation of mistletoe crude extracts (MCEE) using 75% ethanol and culture products of mistletoe transformed by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a photosynthetic bacterium (PSBT), revealed that the high cytotoxic activities were due to the petroleum ether extracts (PEs) and the acid-precipitated proteins from the aqueous extracts (AQs) of MCEE and PSBT. The isolated triterpenes may account for the activities of the PEs of MCEE and PSBT, respectively. Extraction of MCEE using petroleum ether led to the isolation of 3-epi-betulinic acid (1), betulonic acid (2), oleanolic acid (3), and beta-amyrin acetate (4), while petroleum ether extraction of PSBT led to the isolation of 1,3,4,betulinic acid (5), erythrodiol (6), and (3beta)-olean-12-ene-3,23-diol (7). The PE of PSBT exerted higher cytotoxicity than the PE of MCEE, which was due to the different triterpene contents of these two extracts. The cytotoxic activities of all compounds were tested, and the results revealed t	2009	5	21	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	Animals; Antineoplastic Agents; Biological Assay; Biotransformation; Cell Death; Cell Line, Tumor; Chemical Fractionation; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Humans; Mice; Plant Extracts; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toxicity Tests, Acute; Triterpenes; Viscum	Yang	Guan-E
18835523	10.1016/j.jasms.2008.08.017	Characterization of ornithine and glutamine lipids extracted from cell membranes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The identification and structural characterization of a series of ornithine lipids extracted from the cell membranes of wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides, as well as from a glycerophosphocholine-deficient strain, have been achieved by multistage tandem mass spectrometry of their protonated and deprotonated precursor ions in a linear quadrupole ion trap. Systematic examination of the multistage gas-phase fragmentation reactions of these ions, combined with the use of hydrogen/deuterium exchange, has enabled the pathways responsible for sequential losses of the 3-hydroxy linked fatty acyl chain and the amide linked 3-OH fatty acyl chain from these lipids, as well as for formation of the previously reported ornithine specific positively charged "fingerprint" ion at m/z 115, to be determined. Additionally, the fragmentation pathways responsible for formation of a previously unreported ornithine lipid head group-specific product ion at m/z 131 in negative ion mode have been examined. Based 	2009	3	19	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry	Cell Membrane; Glutamine; Glycerylphosphorylcholine; Lipids; Ornithine; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Zhang	Xi
18819910	10.1074/jbc.M805527200	Ethylmalonyl-CoA mutase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides defines a new subclade of coenzyme B12-dependent acyl-CoA mutases.	Coenzyme B(12)-dependent mutases are radical enzymes that catalyze reversible carbon skeleton rearrangement reactions. Here we describe Rhodobacter sphaeroides ethylmalonyl-CoA mutase (Ecm), a novel member of the family of coenzyme B(12)-dependent acyl-CoA mutases, that operates in the recently discovered ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway for acetate assimilation. Ecm is involved in the central reaction sequence of this novel pathway and catalyzes the transformation of ethylmalonyl-CoA to methylsuccinyl-CoA in combination with a second enzyme that was further identified as promiscuous ethylmalonyl-CoA/methylmalonyl-CoA epimerase. In contrast to the epimerase, Ecm is highly specific for its substrate, ethylmalonyl-CoA, and accepts methylmalonyl-CoA only at 0.2% relative activity. Sequence analysis revealed that Ecm is distinct from (2R)-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase as well as isobutyryl-CoA mutase and defines a new subfamily of coenzyme B(12)-dependent acyl-CoA mutases. In combination with molecular	2009	1	22	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Acyl Coenzyme A; Cloning, Molecular; Cobamides; Escherichia coli; Intramolecular Transferases; Isomerases; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Biological; Models, Chemical; Phenotype; Phylogeny; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software; Substrate Specificity; Time Factors	Erb	Tobias J
18819279		[On the electron stabilization within the quinone acceptor part of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers].	The time evolution of the photoinduced differential absorption spectrum of isolated Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers was investigated. The measurements were carried out in the spectral region of 400-500 nm on the time scale of up to 200 microseconds. The spectral changes observed can be interpreted in terms of the effects of proton shift along hydrogen bonds between the primary quinone acceptor and the protein. A theoretical analysis of the spectrum time evolution was performed, which is based on the consideration of the kinetics of proton tunneling along the hydrogen bond. It was shown that the stabilization of the primary quinone electronic state occurs within the first several tens of microseconds after quinone reduction. It slows down upon the deuteration of reaction centers as well as after adding 90% of glycerol; on the other hand, it accelerates as temperature rises up to 40 degrees C.	2008	10	14	Biofizika	Biofizika	Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electrons; Glycerol; Hot Temperature; Hydrogen Bonding; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Noks	P P
18819016	10.1007/s11120-008-9346-6	EPR, ENDOR, and special TRIPLE measurements of P(*+) in wild type and modified reaction centers from Rb. sphaeroides.	The influence of the protein environment on the primary electron donor, P, a bacteriochlorophyll a dimer, of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, has been investigated using electron paramagnetic resonance and electron nuclear double resonance spectroscopy. These techniques were used to probe the effects on P that are due to alteration of three amino acid residues, His L168, Asn L170, and Asn M199. The introduction of Glu at L168, Asp at L170, or Asp at M199 changes the oxidation/reduction midpoint potential of P in a pH-dependent manner (Williams et al. (2001) Biochemistry 40, 15403-15407). For the double mutant His L168 to Glu and Asn at L170 to Asp, excitation results in electron transfer along the A-side branch of cofactors at pH 7.2, but at pH 9.5, a long-lived state involving B-side cofactors is produced (Haffa et al. (2004) J Phys Chem B 108, 4-7). Using electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, the mutants with alterations of each of the three individual residues 	2009	7	29	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophyll A; Coenzymes; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Allen	J P
18808385	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2008.06437.x	The genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 encodes functional cobinamide salvaging systems of archaeal and bacterial origins.	Bacteria and archaea use distinct pathways for salvaging exogenous cobinamide (Cbi), a precursor of adenosylcobalamin (coenzyme B(12)). The bacterial pathway depends on a bifunctional enzyme with kinase and guanylyltransferase activities (CobP in aerobic adenosylcobalamin synthesizers) to convert adenosylcobinamide (AdoCbi) to AdoCbi-guanosine diphosphate (AdoCbi-GDP) via an AdoCbi-phosphate intermediate. Archaea lack CobP, and use a different strategy for the synthesis of AdoCbi-GDP. Archaea cleave off the aminopropanol group of AdoCbi using the CbiZ AdoCbi amidohydrolase to generate adenosylcobyric acid, which is converted to AdoCbi-phosphate by the CbiB synthetase, and to AdoCbi-GDP by the CobY guanylyltransferase. We report phylogenetic, in vivo and in vitro evidence that the genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes functional enzymes for Cbi salvaging systems of both bacterial and archaeal origins. Products of the reactions were identified by high-performance liquid chromatograph	2008	12	9	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Alleles; Amidohydrolases; Archaea; Archaeal Proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Cobamides; Genes, Archaeal; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Genome, Bacterial; Phylogeny; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Salmonella typhimurium	Gray	Michael J
18793176	10.1042/BST0360992	Rhodobacter sphaeroides haem protein: a novel cytochrome with nitric oxide dioxygenase activity.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides produces a novel cytochrome, designated as SHP (sphaeroides haem protein), that is unusual in having asparagine as a redox-labile haem ligand. The gene encoding SHP is contained within an operon that also encodes a DHC (dihaem cytochrome c) and a membrane-associated cytochrome b. DHC and SHP have been shown to have high affinity for each other at low ionic strength (Kd=0.2 microM), and DHC is able to reduce SHP very rapidly. The reduced form of the protein, SHP2+ (reduced or ferrous SHP), has high affinity for both oxygen and nitric oxide (NO). It has been shown that the oxyferrous form, SHP2+-O2 (oxygen-bound form of SHP), reacts rapidly with NO to produce nitrate, whereas SHP2+-NO (the NO-bound form of SHP) will react with superoxide with the same product formed. It is therefore possible that SHP functions physiologically as a nitric oxide dioxygenase, protecting the organism against NO poisoning, and we propose a possible mechanism for this process.	2008	11	12	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Bacterial Proteins; Cytochrome c Group; Hemeproteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Nitrates; Nitric Oxide; Oxygen; Oxygenases; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides	Li	Bor-Ran
18792686	10.1007/978-0-387-78885-2_9	RegB/RegA, a global redox-responding two-component system.	The RegB-RegA regulon from Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes proteins involved in numerous energy-generating and energy-utilizing processes such as photosynthesis, carbon fixation, nitrogen fixation, hydrogen utilization, aerobic and anaerobic respiration, denitrification, electron transport and aerotaxis. The redox signal that is detected by the membrane-bound sensor kinase, RegB, has been identified to be the ubiquinone pool in the membrane. Regulation of RegB autophosphorylation also involves a redox-active cysteine that is present in the cytosolic region of RegB. Both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms of the cognate response regulator RegA are capable of activating or repressing a variety of genes in the regulon. Highly conserved homologues of RegB and RegA have been found in a wide number of photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic bacteria with evidence suggesting that RegB/RegA have a fundamental role in the transcription of redox-regulated genes in 	2008	11	13	Adv Exp Med Biol	Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteria; Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; DNA, Bacterial; Electron Transport; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Nitrogen Fixation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Protein Kinases; Regulon; Rhodobacter; Signal Transduction; Trans-Activators	Wu	Jiang
18771279	10.1021/bi8011687	Structural requirements for key residues and auxiliary portions of a BLUF domain.	BlrB in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a single domain, flavin-based blue light sensor protein in the BLUF family of photoreceptors. Consistent with other members of this family, blue light excitation induces a putative signaling state characterized by a 10 nm red shift in the UV-visible absorbance spectrum. Structural and spectroscopic characterization of truncated BlrB constructs establishes that the C-terminal 50 amino acids of this protein are essential to its structural integrity despite not being part of the canonical BLUF domain architecture. Mutagenesis studies support the critical roles of Tyr9, Asn33, and Gln51 for flavin binding and the integrity of the BLUF domain fold. Comparison of solution NMR spectra of BlrB acquired under dark and light conditions indicates very limited light-dependent conformational changes except for a few interesting residues: Trp92, Met94, and Ile127. Notably, the Ile127 side chain experiences significant chemical shift changes despite the fact that it	2008	12	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; DNA, Bacterial; Flavins; Light; Molecular Conformation; Molecular Sequence Data; Photoreceptor Cells; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Spectrophotometry; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Wu	Qiong
18761433	10.1021/jp711924f	Trapped water molecule in the charge separation of a bacterial reaction center.	Low-frequency oscillations in the absorption spectrum at 1020 nm, connected to the primary charge separation process in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, have been shown by Yakovlev et al. to be caused by rotational motion of an interstitial water molecule called "water-A". The same water molecule was shown by Potter et al. to increase the rate of charge separation by a factor of 8. We have carried out geometry optimization of water-A and its nearest atoms in the protein pocket, using density functional theory (DFT). There are strong hydrogen bonds to the axial imidazol group of the B part of the special pair (P=PAPB) and to the keto carbonyl group of ring V of the accessory chlorophyll (BA). Rotation of water-A is thus impossible in the electronic ground state. We have tried to support our speculations on other possible mechanisms by calculations. The P(+)BA(-) charge transfer state is stabilized by proton transfer from water-A and simultaneous proton transfer from the axial group of PB to wat	2008	10	28	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Ivashin	Nikolai
18759498	10.1021/bi8013483	A conserved steroid binding site in cytochrome C oxidase.	Micromolar concentrations of the bile salt deoxycholate are shown to rescue the activity of an inactive mutant, E101A, in the K proton pathway of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase. A crystal structure of the wild-type enzyme reveals, as predicted, deoxycholate bound with its carboxyl group at the entrance of the K path. Since cholate is a known potent inhibitor of bovine oxidase and is seen in a similar position in the bovine structure, the crystallographically defined, conserved steroid binding site could reveal a regulatory site for steroids or structurally related molecules that act on the essential K proton path.	2008	10	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Binding Sites; Cattle; Conserved Sequence; Crystallography, X-Ray; Deoxycholic Acid; Electron Transport Complex IV; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qin	Ling
18752061	10.1007/s10863-008-9157-7	Electron and proton transfer in the ba(3) oxidase from Thermus thermophilus.	The ba(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase from Thermus thermophilus is phylogenetically very distant from the aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidases. Nevertheless, both types of oxidases have the same number of redox-active metal sites and the reduction of O(2) to water is catalysed at a haem a(3)-Cu(B) catalytic site. The three-dimensional structure of the ba(3) oxidase reveals three possible proton-conducting pathways showing very low homology compared to those of the mitochondrial, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans aa(3) oxidases. In this study we investigated the oxidative part of the catalytic cycle of the ba( 3 )-cytochrome c oxidase using the flow-flash method. After flash-induced dissociation of CO from the fully reduced enzyme in the presence of oxygen we observed rapid oxidation of cytochrome b (k congruent with 6.8 x 10(4) s(-1)) and formation of the peroxy (P(R)) intermediate. In the next step a proton was taken up from solution with a rate constant of approximately 	2009	2	5	J Bioenerg Biomembr	Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes	Binding Sites; Biological Transport, Active; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Stability; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Protons; Thermus thermophilus	Smirnova	Irina A
18723845	10.1074/jbc.M803595200	Structural analysis of a periplasmic binding protein in the tripartite ATP-independent transporter family reveals a tetrameric assembly that may have a role in ligand transport.	Several bacterial solute transport mechanisms involve members of the periplasmic binding protein (PBP) superfamily that bind and deliver ligand to integral membrane transport proteins in the ATP-binding cassette, tripartite tricarboxylate transporter, or tripartite ATP-independent (TRAP) families. PBPs involved in ATP-binding cassette transport systems have been well characterized, but only a few PBPs involved in TRAP transport have been studied. We have measured the thermal stability, determined the oligomerization state by small angle x-ray scattering, and solved the x-ray crystal structure to 1.9 A resolution of a TRAP-PBP (open reading frame tm0322) from the hyperthermophilic bacterium Thermotoga maritima (TM0322). The overall fold of TM0322 is similar to other TRAP transport related PBPs, although the structural similarity of backbone atoms (2.5-3.1 A root mean square deviation) is unusually low for PBPs within the same group. Individual monomers within the tetrameric asymmetric u	2009	1	22	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Adenosine Triphosphate; Biological Transport; Cloning, Molecular; Crystallography, X-Ray; Ligands; Membrane Transport Proteins; Models, Molecular; Models, Statistical; Molecular Conformation; Periplasm; Periplasmic Binding Proteins; Protein Binding; Thermotoga maritima	Cuneo	Matthew J
18723509	10.1074/jbc.M804824200	The organization of LH2 complexes in membranes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The mapping of the photosynthetic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by atomic force microscopy (AFM) revealed a unique organization of arrays of dimeric reaction center-light harvesting I-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) core complexes surrounded and interconnected by light-harvesting LH2 complexes (Bahatyrova, S., Frese, R. N., Siebert, C. A., Olsen, J. D., van der Werf, K. O., van Grondelle, R., Niederman, R. A., Bullough, P. A., Otto, C., and Hunter, C. N. (2004) Nature 430, 1058-1062). However, membrane regions consisting solely of LH2 complexes were under-represented in these images because these small, highly curved areas of membrane rendered them difficult to image even using gentle tapping mode AFM and impossible with contact mode AFM. We report AFM imaging of membranes prepared from a mutant of R. sphaeroides, DPF2G, that synthesizes only the LH2 complexes, which assembles spherical intracytoplasmic membrane vesicles of approximately 53 nm diameter in vivo. By opening these vesicles and a	2008	12	23	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Olsen	John D
18723027	10.1016/j.jmb.2008.08.017	Organization and evolution of the biological response to singlet oxygen stress.	The appearance of atmospheric oxygen from photosynthetic activity led to the evolution of aerobic respiration and responses to the resulting reactive oxygen species. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a photosynthetic alpha-proteobacterium, a transcriptional response to the reactive oxygen species singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) is controlled by the group IV sigma factor sigma(E) and the anti-sigma factor ChrR. In this study, we integrated various large datasets to identify genes within the (1)O(2) stress response that contain sigma(E)-dependent promoters both within R. sphaeroides and across the bacterial phylogeny. Transcript pattern clustering and a sigma(E)-binding sequence model were used to predict candidate promoters that respond to (1)O(2) stress in R. sphaeroides. These candidate promoters were experimentally validated to nine R. sphaeroides sigma(E)-dependent promoters that control the transcription of 15 (1)O(2)-activated genes. Knowledge of the R. sphaeroides response to (1)O(2) and its 	2008	11	6	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Biological Evolution; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidative Stress; Phylogeny; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription Factors	Dufour	Yann S
18716316	10.1194/jlr.M800312-JLR200	Cardiolipin increases in chromatophores isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides after osmotic stress: structural and functional roles.	Chromatophores isolated from cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides exposed to hypertonic solutions were enriched in cardiolipin (CL). Because CL levels are raised by increasing the incubation time of R. sphaeroides in hypertonic solutions, it was possible to isolate chromatophores containing different CL amounts by starting from cells incubated in hypertonic solutions for different times. The functionality and stability of the photosynthetic proteins in chromatophore membranes having different CL levels were investigated. Reaction center (RC) stabilization with respect to thermal denaturation and photoxidative damage was observed by flash photolysis and fluorescence emission experiments in CL-enriched chromatophores. To gain detailed information about the structures of endogenous CLs, this lipid family was isolated and purified by preparative TLC, and characterized by high-resolution mass spectrometry. We conclude that osmotic shock can be used as a tool to modulate CL levels in isolated ch	2009	4	20	J Lipid Res	Journal of lipid research	Bacterial Chromatophores; Cardiolipins; Mass Spectrometry; Osmosis; Osmotic Pressure; Photolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Structure-Activity Relationship; Time Factors	De Leo	Vincenzo
18713733	10.1074/jbc.M803013200	On the mechanism of quinol oxidation at the QP site in the cytochrome bc1 complex: studied using mutants lacking cytochrome bL or bH.	To elucidate the mechanism of bifurcated oxidation of quinol in the cytochrome bc1 complex, Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants, H198N and H111N, lacking heme bL and heme bH, respectively, were constructed and characterized. Purified mutant complexes have the same subunit composition as that of the wild-type complex, but have only 9-11% of the electron transfer activity, which is sensitive to stigmatellin or myxothiazol. The Em values for hemes bL and bH in the H111N and H198N complexes are -95 and -35 mV, respectively. The pseudo first-order reduction rate constants for hemes bL and bH in H111N and H198N, by ubiquiniol, are 16.3 and 12.4 s(-1), respectively. These indicate that the Qp site in the H111N mutant complex is similar to that in the wild-type complex. Pre-steady state reduction rates of heme c1 by these two mutant complexes decrease to a similar extent of their activity, suggesting that the decrease in electron transfer activity is due to impairment of movement of the head domai	2008	11	25	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Animals; Antimycin A; Cytochromes; Cytochromes b; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Heme; Horses; Hydroquinones; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yang	Shaoqing
18690706	10.1021/bi800574e	Electron paramagnetic resonance study of radiation damage in photosynthetic reaction center crystals.	Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) was used to simultaneously study radiation-induced cofactor reduction and damaging radical formation in single crystals of the bacterial reaction center (RC). Crystals of Fe-removed/Zn-replaced RC protein from Rhodobacter ( R.) sphaeroides R26 were irradiated with varied radiation doses at cryogenic temperature and analyzed for radiation-induced free radical formation and alteration of light-induced photosynthetic electron transfer activity using high-field (HF) D-band (130 GHz) and X-band (9.5 GHz) EPR spectroscopies. These analyses show that the formation of radiation-induced free radicals saturated at doses 1 order of magnitude smaller than the amount of radiation at which protein crystals lose their diffraction quality, while light-induced RC activity was found to be lost at radiation doses at least 1 order of magnitude lower than the dose at which radiation-induced radicals exhibited saturation. HF D-band EPR spectra provide direct evidence fo	2008	10	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Iron; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Diffraction; Zinc	Utschig	Lisa M
18689484	10.1128/JB.00719-08	The use of chromatin immunoprecipitation to define PpsR binding activity in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The expression of genes involved in photosystem development in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is dependent upon three major regulatory networks: FnrL, the PrrBA (RegBA) two-component system, and the transcriptional repressor/antirepressor PpsR/AppA. Of the three regulators, PpsR appears to have the narrowest range of physiological effects, which are limited to effects on the structural and pigment biosynthetic activities involved in photosynthetic membrane function. Although a PrrA(-) mutant is unable to grow under photosynthetic conditions, when a ppsR mutation was present, photosynthetic growth occurred. An examination of the double mutant under anaerobic-dark-dimethyl sulfoxide conditions using microarray analysis revealed the existence of an "extended" PpsR regulon and new physiological roles. To characterize the PpsR regulon and to better ascertain the significance of degeneracy within the PpsR binding sequence in vivo, we adapted the chromatin immunoprecipitation technique to R. sphaero	2008	10	28	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chromatin Immunoprecipitation; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Darkness; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Regulon; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bruscella	Patrice
18689483	10.1128/JB.00828-08	Regulation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 hemA gene by PrrA and FnrL.	Part of the oxygen responsiveness of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 tetrapyrrole production involves changes in transcription of the hemA gene, which codes for one of two isoenzymes catalyzing 5-aminolevulinic acid synthesis. Regulation of hemA transcription from its two promoters is mediated by the DNA binding proteins FnrL and PrrA. The two PrrA binding sites, binding sites I and II, which are located upstream of the more-5' hemA promoter (P1), are equally important to transcription under aerobic conditions, while binding site II is more important under anaerobic conditions. By using phosphoprotein affinity chromatography and immunoblot analyses, we showed that the phosphorylated PrrA levels in the cell increase with decreasing oxygen tensions. Then, using both in vivo and in vitro methods, we demonstrated that the relative affinities of phosphorylated and unphosphorylated PrrA for the two binding sites differ and that phosphorylated PrrA has greater affinity for site II. We also show	2008	10	28	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Aerobiosis; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Anaerobiosis; Artificial Gene Fusion; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Chromatography, Affinity; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Immunoblotting; Molecular Sequence Data; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; beta-Galactosidase	Ranson-Olson	Britton
18688505	10.1039/b805897k	Photophysical properties of quinones and their interaction with the photosynthetic reaction centre.	Photophysical properties of tetramethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (TMBQ) and 2,6-dimethoxy-1,4-benzoquinone (DMOBQ) in solution and their interactions with the photosynthetic reaction centre (RC) isolated from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been investigated in this work. For these two benzoquinone derivatives an efficient ISC process which leads to the population of the lowest triplet state of the molecules upon direct excitation was observed. The presence of RC does not alter the properties of the triplet state of DMOBQ suggesting that interactions are negligible; on the other side RC efficiently quenched the T1 state of TMBQ. The behavior is rationalized in terms of redox potentials of quinones and kinetic characteristics of their transients.	2008	9	30	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Crystallography, X-Ray; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Barbafina	Arianna
18676458	10.1099/ijs.0.65642-0	Rhodobacter megalophilus sp. nov., a phototroph from the Indian Himalayas possessing a wide temperature range for growth.	Two strains of phototrophic, purple non-sulfur bacteria capable of growing at low temperatures (5 degrees C) were isolated from the Himalayas. The two strains showed positive phototaxis and grew over a relatively wide temperature range (5-40 degrees C). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain JA194T clustered with members of the genus Rhodobacter. Strain JA194T showed highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM 158T (99 %). However, DNA-DNA hybridization experiments between Rba. sphaeroides DSM 158T and strain JA194T revealed a level of relatedness of only 67 %. The DNA base composition of strain JA194T was 66.67 mol% G+C (by HPLC). Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, morphological, physiological, Fourier transform infrared fingerprinting and DNA-DNA hybridization studies, strain JA194T (=KCTC 5602T =JCM 14598T) is sufficiently different from other Rhodobacter species to merit its description as the type strain of a	2008	10	7	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Altitude; Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Composition; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Fourier Analysis; Genes, rRNA; Genotype; India; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Phenotype; Phototrophic Processes; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Soil Microbiology; Species Specificity; Temperature	Arunasri	K
18672901	10.1021/bi800507p	The iron-sulfur cluster of electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase is the electron acceptor for electron transfer flavoprotein.	Electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO) accepts electrons from electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and reduces ubiquinone from the ubiquinone pool. It contains one [4Fe-4S] (2+,1+) and one FAD, which are diamagnetic in the isolated oxidized enzyme and can be reduced to paramagnetic forms by enzymatic donors or dithionite. In the porcine protein, threonine 367 is hydrogen bonded to N1 and O2 of the flavin ring of the FAD. The analogous site in Rhodobacter sphaeroides ETF-QO is asparagine 338. Mutations N338T and N338A were introduced into the R. sphaeroides protein by site-directed mutagenesis to determine the impact of hydrogen bonding at this site on redox potentials and activity. The mutations did not alter the optical spectra, EPR g-values, spin-lattice relaxation rates, or the [4Fe-4S] (2+,1+) to FAD point-dipole interspin distances. The mutations had no impact on the reduction potential for the iron-sulfur cluster, which was monitored by changes in the c	2008	9	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Asparagine; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Protein Structure, Secondary; Sulfur; Swine; Temperature; Threonine	Swanson	Michael A
18671937	10.1016/j.bbabio.2008.06.012	Coupling of electron transfer to proton uptake at the Q(B) site of the bacterial reaction center: a perspective from FTIR difference spectroscopy.	FTIR difference spectroscopy provides a unique approach to study directly protonation/deprotonation events of carboxylic acids involved in the photochemical cycle of membrane proteins, such as the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC). In this work, we review the data obtained by light-induced FTIR difference spectroscopy on the first electron transfer to the secondary quinone Q(B) in native RCs and a series of mutant RCs. We first examine the approach of isotope-edited FTIR spectroscopy to investigate the binding site of Q(B). This method provides highly specific IR vibrational fingerprints of the bonding interactions of the carbonyls of Q(B) and Q(B)(-) with the protein. The same isotope-edited IR fingerprints for the carbonyls of neutral Q(B) have been observed for native Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs and several mutant RCs at the Pro-L209, Ala-M260, or Glu-L212/Asp-L213 sites, for which X-ray crystallography has found the quinone in the proximal position. It is concluded that	2008	12	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Binding Sites; Carboxylic Acids; Electron Transport; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Water	Nabedryk	Eliane
18671366	10.1021/jp711946w	Ultrafast time-resolved carotenoid to-bacteriochlorophyll energy transfer in LH2 complexes from photosynthetic bacteria.	Steady-state and ultrafast time-resolved optical spectroscopic investigations have been carried out at 293 and 10 K on LH2 pigment-protein complexes isolated from three different strains of photosynthetic bacteria: Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides G1C, Rb. sphaeroides 2.4.1 (anaerobically and aerobically grown), and Rps. acidophila 10050. The LH2 complexes obtained from these strains contain the carotenoids, neurosporene, spheroidene, spheroidenone, and rhodopin glucoside, respectively. These molecules have a systematically increasing number of pi-electron conjugated carbon-carbon double bonds. Steady-state absorption and fluorescence excitation experiments have revealed that the total efficiency of energy transfer from the carotenoids to bacteriochlorophyll is independent of temperature and nearly constant at approximately 90% for the LH2 complexes containing neurosporene, spheroidene, spheroidenone, but drops to approximately 53% for the complex containing rhodopin glucoside. Ultrafast 	2008	10	21	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Algorithms; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cold Temperature; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Temperature; Time Factors	Cong	Hong
18647748	10.1074/jbc.M803864200	Light-induced hydrogen bonding pattern and driving force of electron transfer in AppA BLUF domain photoreceptor.	The AppA BLUF (blue light sensing using FAD) domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides serves as a blue light-sensing photoreceptor. The charge separation process between Tyr-21 and flavin plays an important role in the light signaling state by transforming the dark state conformation to the light state one. By solving the linearized Poisson-Boltzmann equation, I calculated E(m) for Tyr-21, flavin, and redox-active Trp-104 and revealed the electron transfer (ET) driving energy. Rotation of the Gln-63 side chain that converts protein conformation from the dark state to the light state is responsible for the decrease of 150 mV in E(m) for Tyr-21, leading to the significantly larger ET driving energy in the light state conformation. The pK(a) values of protonation for flavin anions are essentially the same in both dark and light state crystal structures. In contrast to the ET via Tyr-21, formation of the W state results in generation of only the dark state conformation (even if the initial conf	2008	12	23	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Flavoproteins; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Models, Chemical; Mutation, Missense; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ishikita	Hiroshi
18636767	10.1021/jp8016503	Energetics and kinetics of primary charge separation in bacterial photosynthesis.	We report the results of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and formal modeling of the free-energy surfaces and reaction rates of primary charge separation in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Two simulation protocols were used to produce MD trajectories. Standard force-field potentials were employed in the first protocol. In the second protocol, the special pair was made polarizable to reproduce a high polarizability of its photoexcited state observed by Stark spectroscopy. The charge distribution between covalent and charge-transfer states of the special pair was dynamically adjusted during the simulation run. We found from both protocols that the breadth of electrostatic fluctuations of the protein/water environment far exceeds previous estimates, resulting in about 1.6 eV reorganization energy of electron transfer in the first protocol and 2.5 eV in the second protocol. Most of these electrostatic fluctuations become dynamically frozen on the time scale of primary ch	2008	9	26	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacteriochlorophylls; Biophysics; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Models, Statistical; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Time Factors	LeBard	David N
18634315		[Effect of energy status of hydrogen bond protons on the rate of electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers].	We present here a theoretical interpretation of the temperature dependence of the rate of dark recombination which takes place in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers between a primary quinone (Q(A)) and a bacteriochlorophyll dimer. Taking the energy of interaction between hydrogen bond protons and an excessive electron into account, we described qualitative by this nonmonotonous dependence. We considered a molecular model of the primary quinone from Rb. sphaeroides reaction centers. In addition to the primary quinone, the model includes two reaction center fragments that form hydrogen bonds with Q(A). One of these fragments is His(M219), and the other is the peptide [Asn(M259) - Ala(M260)]. We used the two-center approach with regard for electron-phonon interaction in order to calculate the characteristic time of electron tunneling during the recombination reaction. The energy of the phonon emitted/absorbed during the electron tunneling is determined by a relative shift of the don	2008	8	8	Biofizika	Biofizika	Dipeptides; Electron Transport; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Biological; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Krasil'nikov	P M
18630851	10.1021/jp710689s	Average electron tunneling route of the electron transfer in protein media.	We present a new theoretical method to determine and visualize the average tunneling route of the electron transfer (ET) in protein media. In this, we properly took into account the fluctuation of the tunneling currents and the quantum-interference effect. The route was correlated with the electronic factor &lt;TDA(2)&gt; in the case of ET by the elastic tunneling mechanism. We expanded &lt;TDA(2)&gt; by the interatomic tunneling currents &lt;Jab(2)&gt;'s. Incorporating the quantum-interference effect into the mean-square interatomic tunneling currents, denoted as &lt;Jab(2)&gt;, we could express &lt;TDA(2)&gt; as a sum of variant Planck's over 2pi(2)&lt;Jab(2)&gt;. Drawing the distribution of &lt;Jab(2)&gt; on the protein structure, we obtain the &lt;Jab(2)&gt; map which visually represents which parts of bonds and spaces most significantly contribute to &lt;TDA(2)&gt;. We applied this method to the ET from the bacteriopheophytin anion to the primary quinone in the bacterial photosynt	2008	9	22	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nishioka	Hirotaka
18611016	10.1021/ja801801p	Protein-matrix coupling/uncoupling in "dry" systems of photosynthetic reaction center embedded in trehalose/sucrose: the origin of trehalose peculiarity.	Trehalose is a nonreducing disaccharide of glucose found in organisms, which can survive adverse conditions such as extreme drought and high temperatures. Furthermore, isolated structures, as enzymes or liposomes, embedded in trehalose are preserved against stressing conditions [see, e.g., Crowe, L. M. Comp. Biochem. Physiol. A 2002, 131, 505-513]. Among other hypotheses, such protective effect has been suggested to stem, in the case of proteins, from the formation of a water-mediated, hydrogen bond network, which anchors the protein surface to the water-sugar matrix, thus coupling the internal degrees of freedom of the biomolecule to those of the surroundings [Giuffrida, S.; et al. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107, 13211-13217]. Analogous protective effect is also accomplished by other saccharides, although with a lower efficiency. Here, we studied the recombination kinetics of the primary, light-induced charge separated state (P(+)Q(A)(-)) and the thermal stability of the photosynthetic re	2008	9	26	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Hydrogen Bonding; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protective Agents; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Sucrose; Trehalose; Water	Francia	Francesco
18576650	10.1021/ja801963a	Water Activity Regulates the Q(A)(-) to Q(B) electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We report on the effects of water activity and surrounding viscosity on electron transfer reactions taking place within a membrane protein: the reaction center (RC) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We measured the kinetics of charge recombination between the primary photoxidized donor (P(+)) and the reduced quinone acceptors. Water activity (aW) and viscosity (eta) have been tuned by changing the concentration of cosolutes (trehalose, sucrose, glucose, and glycerol) and the temperature. The temperature dependence of the rate of charge recombination between the reduced primary quinone, Q(A)(-), and P(+) was found to be unaffected by the presence of cosolutes. At variance, the kinetics of charge recombination between the reduced secondary quinone (Q(B)(-)) and P(+) was found to be severely influenced by the presence of cosolutes and by the temperature. Results collected over a wide eta-range (2 orders of magnitude) demonstrate that the rate of P(+)Q(B)(-) recomb	2008	9	2	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Electrons; Glucose; Glycerol; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Sucrose; Trehalose; Viscosity; Water	Palazzo	Gerardo
18558349	10.1263/jbb.105.558	Biotransformation of beta-amyrin acetate by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The microbial transformation of beta-amyrin acetate (compound 1) occurred in the culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides producing three metabolites. The metabolites were purified and identified as beta-amyrin (compound 2), (3beta)-olean-12-ene-3, 23-diol (compound 3), and erythrodiol (compound 4). Initially, it was found that beta-amyrin acetate could be deacetylated and hydroxylated by microbial methods.	2008	9	10	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	Bioreactors; Biotransformation; Cell Culture Techniques; Oleanolic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yang	Guan-E
18548247	10.1007/s00253-008-1555-6	Enhancing survival of Escherichia coli by expression of azoreductase AZR possessing quinone reductase activity.	Quinone reductase activity of azoreductase AZR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was reported. High homologies were found in the cofactor/substrate-binding regions of quinone reductases from different domains. 3D structure comparison revealed that AZR shared a common overall topology with mammal NAD(P)H/quinone oxidoreductase NQO1. With menadione as substrate, the optimal pH value and temperature were pH 8-9 and 50 degrees C, respectively. Following the ping-pong kinetics, AZR transferred two electrons from NADPH to quinone substrate. It could reduce naphthoquinones and anthraquinones, such as menadione, lawsone, anthraquinone-2-sulfonate, and anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate. However, no activity was detected with 1,4-benzoquinone. Dicoumarol competitively inhibited AZR's quinone reductase activity with respect to NADPH, with an obtained K (i) value of 87.6 microM. Significantly higher survival rates were obtained in Escherichia coli YB overexpressing AZR than in the control strain when treat	2008	11	13	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Kinetics; Microbial Viability; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; NAD(P)H Dehydrogenase (Quinone); NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Nitroreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Substrate Specificity	Liu	Guangfei
18540094	10.1271/bbb.70780	Isolation of a thermotolerant photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides Strain, NAT, and its capacity for oil and chemical oxygen demand removal at high temperatures.	A thermotolerant photosynthetic bacterium NAT identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides was isolated. When alginate-immobilized cells of strain NAT were used in high-temperature treatment of artificial sewage wastewater containing oil, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) decreased by 80% and 76% of the oil was removed after 96 h of treatment at 55 degrees C. Lipase activity was observed in the culture.	2008	8	25	Biosci Biotechnol Biochem	Bioscience, biotechnology, and biochemistry	Aerobiosis; Oils; Oxygen; Phosphates; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Yamaoka	Yosuke
18537288	10.1021/jp801943w	Stability of integral membrane proteins under high hydrostatic pressure: the LH2 and LH3 antenna pigment-protein complexes from photosynthetic bacteria.	The bacteriochlorophyll a-containing LH2 and LH3 antenna complexes are the integral membrane proteins that catalyze the photosynthetic process in purple photosynthetic bacteria. The LH2 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides shows characteristic strong absorbance at 800 and 850 nm due to the pigment molecules confined in two separate areas of the protein. In the LH3 complex from Rhodopesudomonas acidophila the corresponding bands peak at 800 and 820 nm. Using the bacteriochlorophyll a cofactors as intrinsic probes to monitor local changes in the protein structure, we investigate spectral responses of the antenna complexes to very high hydrostatic pressures up to 2.5 GPa when embedded into natural membrane environment or extracted with detergent. We first demonstrate that high pressure does induce significant alterations to the tertiary structure of the proteins not only in proximity of the 800 nm-absorbing bacteriochlorophyll a molecules known previously (Gall, A.; et al. Biochemistry 20	2008	7	25	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Elasticity; Hydrogen; Hydrostatic Pressure; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Micelles; Photosynthesis; Pigments, Biological; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrophotometry	Kangur	Liina
18487335	10.1128/JB.00301-08	Role of the global transcriptional regulator PrrA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: combined transcriptome and proteome analysis.	The PrrBA two-component regulatory system is a major global regulator in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. Here we have compared the transcriptome and proteome profiles of the wild-type (WT) and mutant PrrA2 cells grown anaerobically in the dark with dimethyl sulfoxide as an electron acceptor. Approximately 25% of the genes present in the PrrA2 genome are regulated by PrrA at the transcriptional level, either directly or indirectly, by twofold or more relative to the WT. The genes affected are widespread throughout all COG (cluster of orthologous group) functional categories, with previously unsuspected "metabolic" genes affected in PrrA2 cells. PrrA was found to act as both an activator and a repressor of transcription, with more genes being repressed in the presence of PrrA (9:5 ratio). An analysis of the genes encoding the 1,536 peptides detected through our chromatographic study, which corresponds to 36% coverage of the genome, revealed that approximately 20% of the genes encoding the	2008	8	4	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Anaerobiosis; Artificial Gene Fusion; Bacterial Proteins; Darkness; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Kanamycin Resistance; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Proteome; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; beta-Galactosidase	Eraso	Jesus M
18483577	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000084	Evolution of taxis responses in virtual bacteria: non-adaptive dynamics.	Bacteria are able to sense and respond to a variety of external stimuli, with responses that vary from stimuli to stimuli and from species to species. The best-understood is chemotaxis in the model organism Escherichia coli, where the dynamics and the structure of the underlying pathway are well characterised. It is not clear, however, how well this detailed knowledge applies to mechanisms mediating responses to other stimuli or to pathways in other species. Furthermore, there is increasing experimental evidence that bacteria integrate responses from different stimuli to generate a coherent taxis response. We currently lack a full understanding of the different pathway structures and dynamics and how this integration is achieved. In order to explore different pathway structures and dynamics that can underlie taxis responses in bacteria, we perform a computational simulation of the evolution of taxis. This approach starts with a population of virtual bacteria that move in a virtual envi	2008	7	7	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Evolution; Chemotaxis; Computer Simulation; Mechanotransduction, Cellular; Models, Biological	Goldstein	Richard A
18479459	10.1111/j.1742-4658.2008.06469.x	Dimers of light-harvesting complex 2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides characterized in reconstituted 2D crystals with atomic force microscopy.	Microscopic and light spectroscopic investigations on the supramolecular architecture of bacterial photosynthetic membranes have revealed the photosynthetic protein complexes to be arranged in a densely packed energy-transducing network. Protein packing may play a determining role in the formation of functional photosynthetic domains and membrane curvature. To further investigate in detail the packing effects of like-protein photosynthetic complexes, we report an atomic force microscopy investigation on artificially created 2D crystals of the peripheral photosynthetic light-harvesting complexes 2 (LH2's) from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Instead of the usually observed one or two different crystallization lattices for one specific preparation protocol, we find seven different packing lattices. The most abundant crystal types all show a tilting of LH2. Most surprisingly, although LH2 is a monomeric protein complex in vivo, we find an LH2 dimer packing motif. We further charact	2008	7	10	FEBS J	The FEBS journal	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Liu	Lu-Ning
18456824	10.1529/biophysj.108.132654	The fe2+ site of photosynthetic reaction centers probed by multiple scattering x-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy: improving structure resolution in dry matrices.	We report on the x-ray absorption fine structure of the Fe(2+) site in photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Crystallographic studies show that Fe(2+) is ligated with four N(epsilon) atoms from four histidine (His) residues and two O(epsilon) atoms from a Glu residue. By considering multiple scattering contributions to the x-ray absorption fine structure function, we improved the structural resolution of the site: His residues were split into two groups, characterized by different Fe-N(epsilon) distances, and two distinct Fe-O(epsilon) bond lengths resolved. The effect of the environment was studied by embedding the reaction centers into a polyvinyl alcohol film and into a dehydrated trehalose matrix. Incorporation into trehalose caused elongation in one of the two Fe-N(epsilon) distances, and in one Fe-O(epsilon) bond length, compared with the polyvinyl alcohol film. The asymmetry detected in the cluster of His residues and its response to incorporation into tr	2008	7	25	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Computer Simulation; Crystallography; Iron; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sensitivity and Specificity; Spectrometry, X-Ray Emission	Veronesi	Giulia
18442284	10.1021/pr0704837	A computational strategy to analyze label-free temporal bottom-up proteomics data.	Biological systems are in a continual state of flux, which necessitates an understanding of the dynamic nature of protein abundances. The study of protein abundance dynamics has become feasible with recent improvements in mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics. However, a number of challenges still remain related to how best to extract biological information from dynamic proteomics data, for example, challenges related to extraneous variability, missing abundance values, and the identification of significant temporal patterns. This paper describes a strategy that addresses these issues and demonstrates its values for analyzing temporal bottom-up proteomics data using data from a Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 time-course study.	2008	9	16	J Proteome Res	Journal of proteome research	Bacterial Proteins; Computational Biology; Computing Methodologies; Proteome; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Du	Xiuxia
18440816	10.1016/j.tim.2008.02.006	Rhodobacter sphaeroides: complexity in chemotactic signalling.	Most bacteria have much more complex chemosensory systems than those of the extensively studied Escherichia coli. Rhodobacter sphaeroides, for example, has multiple homologues of the E. coli chemosensory proteins. The roles of these homologues have been extensively investigated using a combination of deletion, subcellular localization and phosphorylation assays. These studies have shown that the homologues have specific roles in the sensory pathway, and they differ in their cellular localization and interactions with other components of the pathway. The presence of multiple chemosensory pathways might enable bacteria to tune their tactic responses to different environmental conditions.	2008	8	26	Trends Microbiol	Trends in microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Phosphorylation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Porter	Steven L
18424493	10.1529/biophysj.108.130880	Identification of the first steps in charge separation in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by ultrafast mid-infrared spectroscopy: electron transfer and protein dynamics.	Time-resolved visible pump/mid-infrared (mid-IR) probe spectroscopy in the region between 1600 and 1800 cm(-1) was used to investigate electron transfer, radical pair relaxation, and protein relaxation at room temperature in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center (RC). Wild-type RCs both with and without the quinone electron acceptor Q(A), were excited at 600 nm (nonselective excitation), 800 nm (direct excitation of the monomeric bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) cofactors), and 860 nm (direct excitation of the dimer of primary donor (P) BChls (P(L)/P(M))). The region between 1600 and 1800 cm(-1) encompasses absorption changes associated with carbonyl (C=O) stretch vibrational modes of the cofactors and protein. After photoexcitation of the RC the primary electron donor P excited singlet state (P*) decayed on a timescale of 3.7 ps to the state P(+)B(L)(-) (where B(L) is the accessory BChl electron acceptor). This is the first report of the mid-IR absorption spectrum of P(+)B(L)(-); the 	2008	9	8	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Computer Simulation; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Static Electricity	Pawlowicz	Natalia P
18394798	10.1016/j.jhazmat.2008.02.058	Kinetic study approach of remazol black-B use for the development of two-stage anoxic-oxic reactor for decolorization/biodegradation of azo dyes by activated bacterial consortium.	The laboratory-isolated strains Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Proteus mirabilis, Bacillus circulance, NAD 1 and NAD 6 were observed to be predominant in the bacterial consortium responsible for effective decolorization of the azo dyes. The kinetic characteristics of azo dye decolorization by bacterial consortium were determined quantitatively using reactive vinyl sulfonated diazo dye, remazol black-B (RB-B) as a model substrate. Effects of substrate (RB-B) concentration as well as different substrates (azo dyes), environmental parameters (temperature and pH), glucose and other electron donor/co-substrate on the rate of decolorization were investigated to reveal the key factor that determines the performance of dye decolorization. The activation energy (E(a)) and frequency factor (K(0)) based on the Arrhenius equation was calculated as 11.67 kcal mol(-1) and 1.57 x 10(7)mg lg MLSS(-1)h(-1), respectively. The Double-reciprocal or Lineweaver-Burk plot was used to evalua	2009	1	29	J Hazard Mater	Journal of hazardous materials	Algorithms; Anaerobiosis; Azo Compounds; Bacteria; Biodegradation, Environmental; Color; Coloring Agents; Glucose; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Indicators and Reagents; Industrial Waste; Kinetics; Naphthalenesulfonates; Oxygen; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Temperature; Textile Industry; Waste Disposal, Fluid	Dafale	Nishant
18368404	10.1007/s00249-008-0290-3	Turnover of ubiquinone-0 at the acceptor side of photosynthetic reaction center.	The steady-state operation of photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated by measuring the rate of cytochrome photo-oxidation under intensive continuous illumination (808 nm, 5 W cm(-2)). The native quinone UQ10 in Q(B) binding site of the reaction center was substituted by tailless UQ0 and the binding parameters and the turnover rate of the UQ0 was studied to test the recently discovered light-intensity dependent acceptor side effect (Gerencs..r and Mar..ti 2006). The binding parameters of UQ0 (k(on) = 2.1 x 10(5) M(-1) s(-1) and k(off) = 100 s(-1)) were characteristic to the RC exposed to high light-intensity. The dissociation constant (K (D) = 480 microM) determined under high light intensity is 2-3 times larger than that determined from flash-experiments. The light-intensity dependent acceleration of cytochrome turnover measured on reaction center of inhibited proton binding was independent of the type of the quinone and was sensitive only to the si	2008	12	5	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Benzoquinones; Catalytic Domain; Cytochromes; Detergents; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Substrate Specificity; Ubiquinone	Gerencs..r	L..szl..
18365764	10.1007/s11120-008-9294-1	Fine tuning of the spectral properties of LH2 by single amino acid residues.	The peripheral light-harvesting complex, LH2, of Rhodobacter sphaeroides consists of an assembly of membrane-spanning alpha and beta polypeptides which assemble the photoactive bacteriochlorophyll and carotenoid molecules. In this study we systematically investigated bacteriochlorophyll-protein interactions and their effect on functional bacteriochlorophyll assembly by site-directed mutations of the LH2 alpha-subunit. The amino acid residues, isoleucine at position -1 and serine at position -4 were replaced by 12 and 13 other residues, respectively. All residues replacing isoleucine at position -1 supported the functional assembly of LH2. The replacement of isoleucine by glycine, glutamine or asparagine, however, produced LH2 complex with significantly altered spectral properties in comparison to LH2 WT. As indicated by resonance Raman spectroscopy extensive rearrangement of the bacteriochlorophyll-B850 macrocycle(s) took place in LH2 in which isoleucine -1 was replaced by glycine. The	2008	7	21	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Amino Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protein Denaturation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Silber	Martina V
18358716	10.1016/j.biortech.2008.01.071	Bioremediation of cadmium by growing Rhodobacter sphaeroides: kinetic characteristic and mechanism studies.	The removal kinetic characteristic and mechanism of cadmium by growing Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated. The removal data were fitted to the second-order equation, with a correlation coefficient, R2=0.9790-0.9916. Furthermore, it was found that the removal mechanism of cadmium was predominantly governed by bioprecipitation as cadmium sulfide with biosorption contributing to a minor extent. Also, the results revealed that the activities of cysteine desulfhydrase in strains grown in the presence of 10 and 20 mg/l of cadmium were higher than in the control, while the activities in the presence of 30 and 40 mg/l of cadmium were lower than in the control. Content analysis of subcellular fractionation showed that cadmium was mostly removed and transformed by precipitation on the cell wall.	2008	10	3	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Adsorption; Aerobiosis; Biodegradation, Environmental; Bioreactors; Cadmium; Cell Wall; Chemical Precipitation; Cystathionine gamma-Lyase; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Subcellular Fractions; Sulfides; X-Ray Diffraction	Bai	Hong-Juan
18351331	10.1007/s00249-008-0300-5	Kinetics and yields of bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence: redox and conformation changes in reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Induction of the bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence under rectangular shape of intense laser diode illumination (1 W cm(-2), 808 nm) was measured over wide time range from 10 microseconds to 4 s in whole cells, chromatophore and isolated reaction center protein of wild type and carotenoid-less mutant (R-26.1) of purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. While the antenna-containing species showed large and positive variable fluorescence (Fv) to initial fluorescence (F0) (Fv/F0 approximately 4.5 in whole cells), the isolated RC had negative change (Fv/F0 approximately -0.6) during photochemistry. In chromatophore from R-26.1, only seven times higher rate was measured than in isolated reaction center under identical experimental conditions. The enhancement effect of large antenna on the rate of photochemistry in chromatophore was partially compensated by the favorable pigment absorption properties in isolated RC. The transition from membrane bound to isolated form of the rea	2008	12	5	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Cell Membrane; Detergents; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Time Factors	Mar..ti	P..ter
18351330	10.1007/s00249-008-0301-4	The redox midpoint potential of the primary quinone of reaction centers in chromatophores of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is pH independent.	The redox midpoint potential (Em) of the primary quinone of bacterial reaction centers, Q(A), in native membranes (chromatophores) measured by redox potentiometry is reported to be pH dependent (-60 mV/pH) up to a highly distinctive pKa (9.8 in Rba. sphaeroides) for the reduced state. In contrast, the Em of Q(A) in isolated RCs of Rba. sphaeroides, although more variable, has been found to be essentially pH-independent by both redox potentiometry and by delayed fluorescence, which determines the free energy (Delta G(P*A)) of the P+Q(A) state relative to P*. Delayed fluorescence was used here to determine the free energy of P+Q(A) in chromatophores. The emission intensity in chromatophores is two orders of magnitude greater than from isolated RCs largely due to the entropic effect of antenna pigments "drawing out" the excitation from the RC. The pH dependence of Delta G(P*A) was almost identical to that of isolated RCs, in stark contrast with potentiometric redox titrations of Q(A). We 	2008	12	5	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Chromatophores; Fluorescence; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mar..ti	P..ter
18346767	10.1016/j.phytochem.2008.02.007	Contributions of conserved serine and tyrosine residues to catalysis, ligand binding, and cofactor processing in the active site of tyrosine ammonia lyase.	Tyrosine ammonia lyase (TAL) catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to p-coumaric acid using a 3,5-dihydro-5-methylidene-4H-imidazole-4-one (MIO) prosthetic group. In bacteria, TAL is used for production of the photoactive yellow protein chromophore and for caffeic acid biosynthesis in certain actinomycetes. Here we biochemically examine wild-type and mutant forms of TAL from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsTAL). Kinetic analysis of RsTAL shows that the enzyme displays a 90-fold preference for L-tyrosine versus L-phenylalanine as a substrate. The pH-dependence of TAL activity with L-tyrosine and L-phenylalanine demonstrates a common protonation state for catalysis, but indicates a difference in charge-state for binding of either amino acid. Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrates that Ser150, Tyr60, and Tyr300 are essential for catalysis. Mutation of Ser150 to an alanine abrogates formation of the MIO prosthetic group, as shown by mass spectrometry, and prevents catalysis. The Y60F and Y300F	2008	7	25	Phytochemistry	Phytochemistry	Ammonia-Lyases; Bacterial Proteins; Catalysis; Molecular Structure; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Tyrosine	Schroeder	Amy C
18343817	10.1074/jbc.M800090200	Soluble variants of Rhodobacter capsulatus membrane-anchored cytochrome cy are efficient photosynthetic electron carriers.	Photosynthetic (Ps) electron transport pathways often contain multiple electron carriers with overlapping functions. Here we focus on two c-type cytochromes (cyt) in facultative phototrophic bacteria of the Rhodobacter genus: the diffusible cyt c2 and the membrane-anchored cyt c(y). In species like R. capsulatus, cyt c(y) functions in both Ps and respiratory electron transport chains, whereas in other species like R. sphaeroides, it does so only in respiration. The molecular bases of this difference was investigated by producing a soluble variant of cyt c(y) (S-c(y)), by fusing genetically the cyt c2 signal sequence to the cyt c domain of cyt c(y). This novel electron carrier was unable to support the Ps growth of R. capsulatus. However, strains harboring cyt S-c(y) regained Ps growth ability by acquiring mutations in its cyt c domain. They produced cyt S-c(y) variants at amounts comparable with that of cyt c2, and conferred Ps growth. Chemical titration indicated that the redox midpoi	2008	7	9	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Biophysics; Cytochrome c Group; Electrons; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Molecular Conformation; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Static Electricity	Ozt..rk	Yavuz
18339766	10.1529/biophysj.107.117788	On the signaling mechanism and the absence of photoreversibility in the AppA BLUF domain.	The flavoprotein AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides contains an N-terminal, FAD-binding BLUF photoreceptor domain. Upon illumination, the AppA BLUF domain forms a signaling state that is characterized by red-shifted absorbance by 10 nm, a state known as AppA(RED). We have applied ultrafast spectroscopy on the photoaccumulated AppA(RED) state to investigate the photoreversible properties of the AppA BLUF domain. On light absorption by AppA(RED), the FAD singlet excited state FAD(RED)* decays monoexponentially in 7 ps to form the neutral semiquinone radical FADH(*), which subsequently decays to the original AppA(RED) molecular ground state in 60 ps. Thus, FAD(RED)* is deactivated rapidly via electron and proton transfer, probably from the conserved tyrosine Tyr-21 to FAD, followed by radical-pair recombination. We conclude that, in contrast to many other photoreceptors, the AppA BLUF domain is not photoreversible and does not enter alternative reaction pathways upon absorption of a second	2008	7	10	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Flavoproteins; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Radiation Dosage	Toh	K C
18338855	10.1021/bi702088r	Modeling the active-site structure of the cbb3-type oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The active site of the heme-copper oxidases comprises a redox-active high-spin heme and a tris-histidine copper center Cu B. Two amino acids in the close vicinity of the metals, a tyrosine and a tryptophan from helix 6, have been shown to be absolutely required for the catalytic function and should be considered part of the active site. Additionally, amino acid residues from interhelical loops strongly modify the activity. In a separate subfamily of heme-copper oxidases, the cbb 3-type oxidases, the metal centers are identical, the tyrosine is found in helix 7, but nothing is known of the corresponding tryptophan or of the involvement of the loop residues. We have observed a conserved aromatic cluster in the known oxidase structures, including the essential tryptophan and loop residues, and refined our earlier model of the cbb 3-type oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides to test the feasibility of a similar structure. In the refined model, the interactions around the Delta-propionate of	2008	5	27	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Binding Sites; Cattle; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Sharma	Vivek
18334289	10.1016/j.biortech.2008.01.076	Effect of clay pretreatment on photofermentative hydrogen production from olive mill wastewater.	The aim of this paper was to gain further insight into the effect of the clay pretreatment process on photofermentative hydrogen production. This two-stage process involved a clay pretreatment step followed by photofermentation which was performed under anaerobic conditions with the illumination by Tungsten lamps. Rhodobacter sphaeroides O.U.001 was used for photofermentation. Higher amounts of color (65%), total phenol (81%) and chemical oxygen demand (31%) removal efficiencies were achieved after clay pretreatment process. During photofermentative hydrogen production with the effluent of clay pretreatment process, the main organic compounds resulting higher hydrogen production rates were found to be acetic, lactic, propionic, and butyric acids. Compared to photofermentation using raw olive mill wastewater ( 16LH2/LOMW), the amount of photofermentative hydrogen production was doubled by using the effluent of the clay pretreatment process (31.5LH2/LOMW). The reasons for the improvement	2008	9	3	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Aluminum Silicates; Clay; Fermentation; Food Industry; Hydrogen; Industrial Waste; Olea; Photochemistry; Water Pollutants	Ero..lu	Ela
18326046	10.1074/jbc.M800625200	Three-dimensional reconstruction of a membrane-bending complex: the RC-LH1-PufX core dimer of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A three-dimensional model of the dimeric reaction center-light harvesting I-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, calculated from electron microscope single particle analysis of negatively stained complexes, shows that the two halves of the dimer molecule incline toward each other on the periplasmic side, creating a remarkable V-shaped structure. The distribution of negative stain is consistent with loose packing of the LH1 ring near the 14th LH1 alpha/beta pair, which could facilitate the migration of quinone and quinol molecules across the LH1 boundary. The three-dimensional model encloses a space near the reaction center Q(B) site and the 14th LH1 alpha/beta pair, which is approximately 20 angstroms in diameter, sufficient to sequester a quinone pool. Helical arrays of dimers were used to construct a three-dimensional membrane model, which matches the packing lattice deduced from electron microscope analysis of the tubular dimer-only membranes found in mutants of 	2008	7	9	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Cell Membrane; Crystallization; Dimerization; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Biological; Molecular Conformation; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
18309264		Genes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 regulated by innate quorum-sensing signal, 7,8-cis-N-(tetradecenoyl) homoserine lactone.	The free-living photoheterotrophic Gram-negative bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides possesses a quorumsensing (QS) regulatory system mediated by CerR-CerI, a member of the LuxR-LuxI family. To identify the genes affected by the regulatory system, random lacZ fusions were generated in the genome of R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 using a promoter-trapping vector, pSG2. About 20,000 clones were screened and 23 showed a significantly different level of beta- gal activities upon the addition of synthetic 7,8-cis-Ntetradecenoyl- homoserine lactone (RAI). Among these 23 clones, the clone showing the highest level of induction was selected for further study, where about a ten-fold increase of beta-gal activity was exhibited in the presence of RAI and induction was shown to be required for cerR. In this clone, the lacZ reporter was inserted in a putative gene that exhibited a low homology with catD. A genetic analysis showed that the expression of the catD homolog was initiated from a promoter of a	2008	7	8	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	4-Butyrolactone; Bacterial Proteins; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Reporter; Genetic Vectors; Molecular Sequence Data; Quorum Sensing; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hwang	Won
18286272	10.1007/s00249-008-0287-y	Singlet oxygen generation in the reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Singlet oxygen (1O2) generation in the reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type was characterized by luminescent emission in the near infrared region (time resolved transients and emission spectra) and quantified to have quantum yield of 0.03 +/- 0.005. 1O2 emission was measured as a function of temperature, ascorbate, urea and potassium ferricyanide concentrations and as a function of incubation time in H2O:D2O mixtures. 1O2 was shown to be affected by the RC dynamics and to originate from the reaction of molecular oxygen with two sources of triplets: photoactive dimer formed by singlet-triplet mixing and bacteriopheophytin formed by direct photoexcitation and intersystem crossing.	2008	11	18	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Computer Simulation; Models, Biological; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen	Uchoa	Adjaci F
18282179	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2008.00306.x	Role of the N-terminal region in the function of the photosynthetic bacterium transcription regulator PpsR.	PpsR is a transcription repressor for the gene cluster encoding photosystem genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Repression activity is accomplished by DNA binding on the promoter regions of the photosystem gene clusters, and depends on both the redox potential and the presence of antirepressor protein AppA. To understand DNA repression regulation by PpsR, we investigated the function of PpsR domains in self-association for DNA binding. We constructed domain-deletion mutants and verified DNA-binding activity and dimer formation. Gel shift assay for measuring the DNA-binding activity of three sequential N-terminal deletion mutants revealed that N-terminal deletions (of minimum 121 residues) caused loss of binding activity. Size-exclusion gel chromatography revealed that deletion mutant which lacks the N-terminal 121-amino acid deletion mutant to exist as a dimer, although it was less stable than the intact PpsR. The mutants lacking the adjacent regions, Q-linker region and the first Per-An	2008	9	23	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Dimerization; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Transcription Factors	Yamazaki	Yoichi
18263659	10.1529/biophysj.107.124172	Molecular models predict light-induced glutamine tautomerization in BLUF photoreceptors.	The recently discovered photoreceptor proteins containing BLUF (sensor of blue light using FAD) domains mediate physiological responses to blue light in bacteria and euglena. In BLUF domains, blue light activates the flavin chromophore yielding a signaling state characterized by a approximately 10 nm red-shifted absorption. We developed molecular models for the dark and light states of the BLUF domain of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides AppA protein, which are based on the crystal structures and quantum-mechanical simulations. According to these models, photon absorption by the flavin results in a tautomerization and 180 degree rotation of the Gln side chain that interacts with the flavin cofactor. This chemical modification of the Gln residue induces alterations in the hydrogen bond network in the core of the photoreceptor domain, which were observed in numerous spectroscopic experiments. The calculated electronic transition energies and vibrational frequencies of the proposed dark and lig	2008	5	21	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Computer Simulation; Dinucleoside Phosphates; Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation; Glutamine; Isomerism; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photons; Photoreceptor Cells; Protein Conformation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Radiation Dosage	Domratcheva	Tatiana
18237308	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2007.01499.x	Molecular genetic analysis of a dimethylsulfoniopropionate lyase that liberates the climate-changing gas dimethylsulfide in several marine alpha-proteobacteria and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The alpha-proteobacterium Sulfitobacter EE-36 makes the gas dimethylsulfide (DMS) from dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP), an abundant antistress molecule made by many marine phytoplankton. We screened a cosmid library of Sulfitobacter for clones that conferred to other bacteria the ability to make DMS. One gene, termed dddL, was sufficient for this phenotype when cloned in pET21a and introduced into Escherichia coli. Close DddL homologues exist in the marine alpha-proteobacteria Fulvimarina, Loktanella Oceanicola and Stappia, all of which made DMS when grown on DMSP. There was also a dddL homologue in Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1, but not in strain ATCC 17025; significantly, the former, but not the latter, emits DMS when grown with DMSP. Escherichia coli containing the cloned, overexpressed dddL genes of R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 and Sulfitobacter could convert DMSP to acrylate plus DMS. This is the first identification of such a 'DMSP lyase'. Thus, DMS can be made either by this Dd	2008	4	8	Environ Microbiol	Environmental microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Carbon-Sulfur Lyases; Climate; Genes, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfides	Curson	A R J
18215032	10.1021/jp075184j	Primary radical pair P(+)H(-) lifetime in rhodobacter sphaeroides with blocked electron transfer to Q(A). Effect of o-phenanthroline.	Transient absorption spectroscopy with a time resolution of approximately 1 ns was applied to study the decay of the primary radical pair P+H- in Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 reaction centers with blocked electron transfer from H- to QA. The block in the electron transfer was realized in two ways: by either reducing or removing QA. We found very different kinetics of the P+H- decay in these two cases. Convolution of the multiexponential decay with the instrument response function allowed resolution of as many as three kinetic components of &lt;1-, 3-4-, and 9-12-ns lifetimes in chromatophores with QA reduced and in isolated reaction centers both with QA either reduced or removed (with or without o-phenanthroline) but with variable relative amplitudes. Removing QA or adding o-phenanthroline to isolated reaction centers increased the amplitude of the slowest decay phase relative to that of the fastest phase. On the basis of these observations, we propose that reaction centers adopt three	2008	4	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Algorithms; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Hydrogen; Ions; Kinetics; Phenanthrolines; Phosphorus; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
18174148	10.1099/mic.0.2007/011346-0	Identification of proteins involved in formaldehyde metabolism by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Formaldehyde is an intermediate formed during the metabolism of methanol or other methylated compounds. Many Gram-negative bacteria generate formaldehyde from methanol via a periplasmic pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ)-dependent dehydrogenase in which the alpha subunit of an alpha(2)beta(2) tetramer has catalytic activity. The genome of the facultative formaldehyde-oxidizing bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes XoxF, a homologue of the catalytic subunit of a proposed PQQ-containing dehydrogenase of Paracoccus denitrificans. R. sphaeroides xoxF is part of a gene cluster that encodes periplasmic c-type cytochromes, including CycI, isocytochrome c(2) and CycB (a cyt c(553i) homologue), as well as adhI, a glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase (GSH-FDH), and gfa, a homologue of a glutathione-formaldehyde activating enzyme (Gfa). To test the roles of XoxF, CycB and Gfa in formaldehyde metabolism by R. sphaeroides, we monitored photosynthetic growth with methanol as a source of 	2008	3	25	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Carbohydrate Dehydrogenases; Formaldehyde; Gene Deletion; Methanol; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Wilson	Shondelle M
18095871	10.1515/BC.2008.001	Employing Rhodobacter sphaeroides to functionally express and purify human G protein-coupled receptors.	G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) represent the largest class of cell surface receptors and play crucial roles in many cellular and physiological processes. Functional production of recombinant GPCRs is one of the main bottlenecks to obtaining structural information. Here, we report the use of a novel bacterial expression system based on the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides for the production of human recombinant GPCRs. The advantage of employing R. sphaeroides as a host lies in the fact that it provides much more membrane surface per cell compared to other typical expression hosts. The system was tailored to overexpress recombinant receptors under the control of the moderately strong and highly regulated superoperonic photosynthetic promoter pufQ. We tested this system for the expression of some class A GPCRs, namely, the human adenosine A2a receptor (A2aR), the human angiotensin AT1a receptor (AT1aR) and the human bradykinin B2 receptor (B2R). Several different cons	2008	2	20	Biol Chem	Biological chemistry	Cell Membrane; Chromatography, Affinity; Chromatography, Gel; Cloning, Molecular; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Humans; Indicators and Reagents; Microscopy, Electron; Photosynthesis; Radioligand Assay; Receptor, Adenosine A2A; Receptor, Angiotensin, Type 1; Receptor, Bradykinin B2; Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Roy	Ankita
17971330	10.1098/rstb.2007.2221	Redox interaction of Mn-bicarbonate complexes with reaction centres of purple bacteria.	It is found that dark reduction of photooxidized primary electron donor P870+ in reaction centres from purple anoxygenic bacteria (two non-sulphur Fe-oxidizing Rhodovulum iodosum and Rhodovulum robiginosum, Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 and sulphur alkaliphilic Thiorhodospira sibirica) is accelerated upon the addition of Mn2+ jointly with bicarbonate (30-75 mM). The effect is not observed if Mn2+ and HCO3(-) have been replaced by Mg2+ and HCO2(-), respectively. The dependence of the effect on bicarbonate concentration suggests that formation of Mn2+-bicarbonate complexes, Mn(HCO3)+ and/or Mn(HCO3)2, is required for re-reduction of P870+ with Mn2+. The results are considered as experimental evidence for a hypothesis on possible participation of Mn-bicarbonate complexes in the evolutionary origin of oxygenic photosynthesis in the Archean era.	2008	5	15	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences	Bicarbonates; Kinetics; Manganese; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Khorobrykh	A A
17969153	10.1002/bit.21689	Biomass-supported palladium catalysts on Desulfovibrio desulfuricans and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A Rhodobacter sphaeroides-supported dried, ground palladium catalyst ("Rs-Pd(0)") was compared with a Desulfovibrio desulfuricans-supported catalyst ("Dd-Pd(0)") and with unsupported palladium metal particles made by reduction under H2 ("Chem-Pd(0)"). Cell surface-located clusters of Pd(0) nanoparticles were detected on both D. desulfuricans and R. sphaeroides but the size and location of deposits differed among comparably loaded preparations. These differences may underlie the observation of different activities of Dd-Pd(0) and Rs-Pd(0) when compared with respect to their ability to promote hydrogen release from hypophosphite and to catalyze chloride release from chlorinated aromatic compounds. Dd-Pd(0) was more effective in the reductive dehalogenation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), whereas Rs-Pd(0) was more effective in the initial dehalogenation of pentachlorophenol (PCP) although the rate of chloride release from PCP was comparable with both preparations after 2 h.	2008	3	31	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	Biodegradation, Environmental; Biomass; Catalysis; Chlorides; Desulfovibrio desulfuricans; Hydrocarbons, Chlorinated; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Oxidation-Reduction; Palladium; Phosphites; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Redwood	Mark D
20384278	10.3923/pjbs.2009.1253.1259	The effect of aeration, agitation and light on biohydrogen production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides NCIMB 8253.	Photo fermentation is a biological process that can be applied for hydrogen production. The process is environmental friendly which is operated under mild conditions using renewable resources. In order to increase yield of H2 produced by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, some experimental factors that may enhance H2 production were studied. The effect of operating parameters including agitation, aeration and light on hydrogen production using R. sphaeroides NCIMB 8253 was investigated. Rhodobacter sphaeroides NCIMB 8253 was grown in 100 mL serum bottle containing growth medium with maliec acid as the sole organic carbon source. The cultures were incubated anaerobically at 30 degrees C with tungsten lamp (100 W) as the light source (3.8 klux) and argon gas was purged for maintaining anaerobic condition. The results show that maximum hydrogen produced was higher (54.37 mL) in static culture with 69.98% of H2 in the total gas compared with shake culture (11.57 mL) with 57.86% of H2. By using stati	2010	4	26	Pak J Biol Sci	Pakistan journal of biological sciences : PJBS	Fermentation; Hydrogen; Industrial Microbiology; Light; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jaapar	S Za'imah Syed
20208980	10.1007/s00723-009-0103-6	Action Spectroscopy on Dense Samples of Photosynthetic Reaction Centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WT Based on Nanosecond Laser-Flash C Photo-CIDNP MAS NMR.	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization magic-angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (photo-CIDNP MAS NMR) allows for the investigation of the electronic structure of the photochemical machinery of photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) at atomic resolution. For such experiments, either continuous radiation from white xenon lamps or green laser pulses are applied to optically dense samples. In order to explore their optical properties, optically thick samples of isolated and quinone-removed RCs of the purple bacteria of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type are studied by nanosecond laser-flash (13)C photo-CIDNP MAS NMR using excitation wavelengths between 720 and 940 nm. Action spectra of both the transient nuclear polarization as well as the nuclear hyperpolarization, remaining in the electronic ground state at the end of the photocycle, are obtained. It is shown that the signal intensity is limited by the amount of accessible RCs and that the different mechanisms of the p	2021	3	10	Appl Magn Reson	Applied magnetic resonance	NA	Daviso	Eugenio
20180320	10.3923/pjbs.2009.1462.1467	Bio-hydrogen production using a two-stage fermentation process.	A two-stage fermentation process consisting of dark and photo-fermentation periods was carried out in a batch reactor. In the first stage, glucose was fermented in the dark stage using Clostridium saccharoperbutylacetonicum N1-4 (ATCC 13564; CSN1-4) to produce acetate, CO2 and H2. The acetate produced in the first stage is fermented to H2 and CO2 by Rhodobacter sphaeroides NCIMB 8253 for further hydrogen production in the second, illuminated stage. The yield of hydrogen in the first stage was about 3.10 mol H2 (mol glucose)(-1) at a glucose concentration of 10 g L(-1), pH 6 +/- 0.2 and 37 degrees C and the second stage yield was about 1.10-1.25 mol H2 (mol acetic acid)(-1) at pH 6.8 +/- 0.2 and 32 degrees C, without removal of the Clostridium CSN1-4. The overall yield of hydrogen in the two-stage process, with glucose as the main substrate was higher than single-stage fermentation.	2010	3	17	Pak J Biol Sci	Pakistan journal of biological sciences : PJBS	Acetic Acid; Anaerobiosis; Biofuels; Biomass; Clostridium; Darkness; Fermentation; Glucose; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sterilization; Temperature	Alalayah	W M
20161332	10.1016/j.chemphys.2009.01.003	Structural model and excitonic properties of the dimeric RC-LH1-PufX complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The light-harvesting apparatus of the purple bacterial photosynthetic unit consists of a pool of peripheral light-harvesting complexes that transfer excitation energy to a reaction center (RC) via the surrounding pigment-protein complex LH1. Recent electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy studies have revealed that RC-LH1 units of Rhodobacter sphaeroides form membrane-bending dimeric complexes together with the polypeptide PufX. We present a structural model for these RC-LH1-PufX dimeric complexes constructed using the molecular dynamics flexible fitting method based on an EM density map. The arrangement of the LH1 BChls displays a distortion near the proposed location of the PufX polypeptide. The resulting atomic model for BChl arrays is used to compute the excitonic properties of the dimeric RC-LH1 complex. A comparison is presented between the structural and excitonic features of the S-shaped dimeric BChl array of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the circular BChl arrangement foun	2021	10	20	Chem Phys	Chemical physics	NA	Sener	Melih
20038586	10.1128/JB.01342-09	Coproporphyrin excretion and low thiol levels caused by point mutation in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides S-adenosylmethionine synthetase gene.	A spontaneous mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL-106 was found to excrete a large amount of a red compound identified as coproporphyrin III, an intermediate in bacteriochlorophyll and heme synthesis. The mutant, named PORF, is able to grow under phototrophic conditions but has low levels of intracellular cysteine and glutathione and overexpresses the cysteine synthase CysK. The expression of molybdoenzymes such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and nitrate reductases is also affected under certain growth conditions. Excretion of coproporphyrin and overexpression of CysK are not directly related but were both found to be consequences of a diminished synthesis of the key metabolite S-adenosylmethionine (SAM). The wild-type phenotype is restored when the gene metK encoding SAM synthetase is supplied in trans. The metK gene in the mutant strain has a mutation leading to a single amino acid change (H145Y) in the encoded protein. This point mutation is responsible for a 70%	2010	3	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Coproporphyrins; Cysteine; DNA Mutational Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Glutathione; Methionine Adenosyltransferase; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation, Missense; Point Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; S-Adenosylmethionine; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sulfhydryl Compounds	Sabaty	Monique
20033469	10.1007/s10295-009-0679-8	Comparison of different mixed cultures for bio-hydrogen production from ground wheat starch by combined dark and light fermentation.	Composition of the mixed culture was varied in combined dark-light fermentation of wheat powder starch in order to improve hydrogen gas formation rate and yield. Heat-treated anaerobic sludge and pure culture of Clostridium beijerinckii (DSMZ 791T) were combined with two different light fermentation bacteria of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RS-NRRL and RS-RV) in order to select a more suitable mixture resulting in high hydrogen yield and formation rate. A combination of the anaerobic sludge and RS-NRRL yielded the highest cumulative hydrogen (CHF = 140 ml), the highest yield (0.36 mol H2 mol(-1) glucose) and specific hydrogen formation rate (2.5 ml H2 g(-1) biomass h(-1)). During dark fermentation (70 h) hydrogen was produced simultaneously by the dark and light fermentation bacteria using glucose from hydrolyzed starch. However, only light fermentation bacteria produced hydrogen from VFA's derived from dark fermentation after a long adaptation period.	2010	6	1	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Anaerobiosis; Clostridium beijerinckii; Darkness; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Light; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sewage; Starch; Triticum	Ozmihci	Serpil
20023300	10.1074/jbc.M109.043505	Modifications of protein environment of the [2Fe-2S] cluster of the bc1 complex: effects on the biophysical properties of the rieske iron-sulfur protein and on the kinetics of the complex.	The rate-determining step in the overall turnover of the bc(1) complex is electron transfer from ubiquinol to the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) at the Q(o)-site. Structures of the ISP from Rhodobacter sphaeroides show that serine 154 and tyrosine 156 form H-bonds to S-1 of the [2Fe-2S] cluster and to the sulfur atom of the cysteine liganding Fe-1 of the cluster, respectively. These are responsible in part for the high potential (E(m)(,7) approximately 300 mV) and low pK(a) (7.6) of the ISP, which determine the overall reaction rate of the bc(1) complex. We have made site-directed mutations at these residues, measured thermodynamic properties using protein film voltammetry to evaluate the E(m) and pK(a) values of ISPs, explored the local proton environment through two-dimensional electron spin echo envelope modulation, and characterized function in strains S154T, S154C, S154A, Y156F, and Y156W. Alterations in reaction rate were investigated under conditions in which concentration of 	2010	4	12	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Antimycin A; Biophysics; Circular Dichroism; Electrochemistry; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Chemical; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Lhee	Sangmoon
20018724	10.1073/pnas.0908608106	The electronic structure of the primary electron donor of reaction centers of purple bacteria at atomic resolution as observed by photo-CIDNP 13C NMR.	Composed of the two bacteriochlorophyll cofactors, P(L) and P(M), the special pair functions as the primary electron donor in bacterial reaction centers of purple bacteria of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Under light absorption, an electron is transferred to a bacteriopheophytin and a radical pair is produced. The occurrence of the radical pair is linked to the production of enhanced nuclear polarization called photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP). This effect can be used to study the electronic structure of the special pair at atomic resolution by detection of the strongly enhanced nuclear polarization with laser-flash photo-CIDNP magic-angle spinning NMR on the carotenoid-less mutant R26. In the electronic ground state, P(L) is strongly disturbed, carrying a slightly negative charge. In the radical cation state, the ratio of total electron spin densities between P(L) and P(M) is 2:1, although it is 2.5:1 for the pyrrole carbons, 2.2:1 for all porphyrinic carb	2010	2	17	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biophysical Phenomena; Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Daviso	Eugenio
20001083	10.1063/1.3271348	Light harvesting complex II B850 excitation dynamics.	The dynamics of excitation energy transfer within the B850 ring of light harvesting complex 2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and between neighboring B850 rings is investigated by means of dissipative quantum mechanics. The assumption of Boltzmann populated donor states for the calculation of intercomplex excitation transfer rates by generalized Forster theory is shown to give accurate results since intracomplex exciton relaxation to near-Boltzmann population exciton states occurs within a few picoseconds. The primary channels of exciton transfer between B850 rings are found to be the five lowest-lying exciton states, with non-850 nm exciton states making significant contributions to the total transfer rate.	2010	2	18	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Models, Biological; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Str..mpfer	Johan
19968959	10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.12.003	Crystal structure of bacterioferritin from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Iron is essential for the survival of organisms, but either excess or deficient levels of iron induce oxidative stress, thereby causing cell damage. As a result, iron regulation is essential for proper cell growth and proliferation in most organisms. Bacterioferritin is a ferritin-like family protein that contains a heme molecule and a ferroxidase site at the di-iron center. This protein plays a primary role in intracellular iron storage for iron homeostasis, as well as in the maintenance of iron in a soluble and non-toxic form. Although several bacterioferritin structures have been determined, no structural studies have successfully elucidated the molecular function of the heme molecule and the ferroxidase center. Here, we report the crystal structure of bacterioferritin from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This protein exists in a roughly spherical configuration via the assembly of 24 subunits. We describe the oligomeric arrangement, ferroxidase center and heme-binding site based on this st	2010	3	15	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome b Group; Ferritins; Molecular Biology; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nam	Ki Hyun
19966004	10.1128/JB.01026-09	Identification, functional studies, and genomic comparisons of new members of the NnrR regulon in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Analysis of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 genome revealed four previously unidentified sequences similar to the binding site of the transcriptional regulator NnrR. Expression studies demonstrated that three of these sequences are within the promoters of genes, designated paz, norEF, and cdgA, in the NnrR regulon, while the status of the fourth sequence, within the tat operon promoter, remains uncertain. nnrV, under control of a previously identified NnrR site, was also identified. paz encodes a pseudoazurin that is a donor of electrons to nitrite reductase. paz inactivation did not decrease nitrite reductase activity, but loss of pseudoazurin and cytochrome c(2) together reduced nitrite reduction. Inactivation of norEF reduced nitrite and nitric oxide reductase activity and increased the sensitivity to nitrite in a taxis assay. This suggests that loss of norEF increases NO production as a result of decreased nitric oxide reductase activity. 2.4.3 is the only strain of R. sphaeroide	2010	2	16	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Azurin; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cytochromes c2; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; Nitric Oxide; Nitrites; Operon; Oxidation-Reduction; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators	Hartsock	Angela
19948127	10.1016/j.bpj.2009.09.007	Membrane curvature induced by aggregates of LH2s and monomeric LH1s.	The photosynthetic apparatus of purple bacteria is contained within organelles called chromatophores, which form as extensions of the cytoplasmic membrane. The shape of these chromatophores can be spherical (as in Rhodobacter sphaeroides), lamellar (as in Rhodopseudomonas acidophila and Phaeospirillum molischianum), or tubular (as in certain Rb. sphaeroides mutants). Chromatophore shape is thought to be influenced by the integral membrane proteins Light Harvesting Complexes I and II (LH1 and LH2), which pack tightly together in the chromatophore. It has been suggested that the shape of LH2, together with its close packing in the membrane, induces membrane curvature. The mechanism of LH2-induced curvature is explored via molecular dynamics simulations of multiple LH2 complexes in a membrane patch. LH2s from three species-Rb. sphaeroides, Rps. acidophila, and Phsp. molischianum-were simulated in different packing arrangements. In each case, the LH2s pack together and tilt with respect to	2010	2	5	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteria; Cell Membrane; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipid Metabolism; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Binding; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Static Electricity	Chandler	Danielle E
19925635	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2009.01836.x	Analyses of binding sequences of the PhaR protein of Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1.	The phaC, phaP, phaR, and phaZ genes are involved in the synthesis, accumulation, and degradation of poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate (PHB). These genes encode the PHB synthase, phasin, regulatory protein, and PHB depolymerase, respectively, and are located in the same locus in the genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1, a purple nonsulfur bacterium capable of producing PHB. We have previously found that the PhaR protein binds to the promoter regions of phaP, phaR, and phaZ and represses their expression. In this study, we determined that PhaR binds to an 11-bp palindromic sequence, 5'-CTGCN(3)GCAG-3', located at nucleotides -69 to -59 and -97 to -87 relative to the translation start site of phaP. Substitution of the three spacer nucleotides with any three or four nucleotides in this sequence had no effect on PhaR binding, but all other base deletions or substitutions in this sequence abolished its ability to bind PhaR both in vitro and in vivo. These results suggest that PhaR regulates the ex	2010	4	14	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; DNA, Bacterial; Hydroxybutyrates; Inverted Repeat Sequences; Point Mutation; Polyesters; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion	Chou	Min-En
19916934	10.1134/s0006297909110042	Primary processes of charge separation in reaction centers of YM210L/FM197Y and YM210L mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Difference femtosecond absorption spectroscopy with 20-fsec temporal resolution was applied to study a primary stage of charge separation and transfer processes in reaction centers of YM210L and YM210L/FM197Y site-directed mutants of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 90 K. Photoexcitation was tuned to the absorption band of the primary electron donor P at 880 nm. Coherent oscillations in the kinetics of stimulated emission of P* excited state at 940 nm and of anion absorption of monomeric bacteriochlorophyll B(A)(-) at 1020 nm were monitored. The absence of tyrosine YM210 in RCs of both mutants leads to strong slowing of the primary reaction P* --&gt; P(+)B(A)(-) and to the absence of stabilization of separated charges in the state P(+)B(A)(-). Mutation FM197Y increases effective mass of an acetyl group of pyrrole ring I in the bacteriochlorophyll molecule P(B) of the double mutant YM210L/FM197Y by a hydrogen bond with OH-TyrM197 group that leads to a decrease in the freq	2010	2	2	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Yakovlev	A G
19906181	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06949.x	Photooxidative stress-induced and abundant small RNAs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Exposure to oxygen and light generates photooxidative stress by the bacteriochlorophyll a mediated formation of singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Our study reports the genome-wide search for small RNAs (sRNAs) involved in the regulatory response to (1)O(2). By using 454 pyrosequencing and Northern blot analysis, we identified 20 sRNAs from R. sphaeroides aerobic cultures or following treatment with (1)O(2) or superoxide (O(-)(2)). One sRNA was specifically induced by (1)O(2) and its expression depends on the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor RpoE. Two sRNAs induced by (1)O(2) and O(-)(2) were cotranscribed with upstream genes preceded by promoters with target sequences for the alternative sigma factors RpoH(I) and RpoH(II). The most abundant sRNA was processed in the presence of (1)O(2) but not by O(-)(2). From this and a second sRNA a conserved 3'-segment accumulated from a larger precursor. Absence of the RNA chaperone Hfq changed the half-lives, abundance and	2010	3	10	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Blotting, Northern; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Oxygen; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Small Interfering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis; Stress, Physiological	Berghoff	Bork A
19891482	10.1021/ja905903n	A glycophorin A-like framework for the dimerization of photosynthetic core complexes.	The core complex in photosynthetic bacteria plays a central role in photosynthesis. This molecular assembly is composed of two protein complexes, viz., the light-harvesting complex I (LH1), which absorbs sunlight by means of the protein-bound bacteriochlorophylls, and the reaction center (RC), which uses the light-excitation energy absorbed by the LH complexes to produce a transmembrane (TM) charge gradient, subsequently employed for energy conversion. In Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides, the core complex contains, in addition, two copies of the single TM alpha-helix protein, PufX, and forms a (RC-LH1-PufX)(2) dimer. To this date, no high-resolution structure has been reported for the entire core complex. In particular, the location of PufX within the (RC-LH1-PufX)(2) dimer is still the subject of much debate. Here, one of the proposed locations for PufX, requiring its dimerization, is examined. The PufX-dimer model on the basis of the glycophorin A (GpA) dimer was constructed, and its r	2010	1	21	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Dimerization; Glycophorins; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hsin	Jen
19890535	10.1039/b912431d	Excitation and electron transfer in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides probed and analyzed globally in the 1-nanosecond temporal window from 330 to 700 nm.	Global analysis of a set of room temperature transient absorption spectra of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers, recorded in wide temporal and spectral ranges and triggered by femtosecond excitation of accessory bacteriochlorophylls at 800 nm, is presented. The data give a comprehensive review of all spectral dynamics features in the visible and near UV, from 330 to 700 nm, related to the primary events in the Rb. sphaeroides reaction center: excitation energy transfer from the accessory bacteriochlorophylls (B) to the primary donor (P), primary charge separation between the primary donor and primary acceptor (bacteriopheophytin, H), and electron transfer from the primary to the secondary electron acceptor (ubiquinone). In particular, engagement of the accessory bacteriochlorophyll in primary charge separation is shown as an intermediate electron acceptor, and the initial free energy gap of approximately 40 meV, between the states P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) is estimated. The siz	2010	1	21	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Electrons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Gibasiewicz	K
19889098	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06928.x	The cobinamide amidohydrolase (cobyric acid-forming) CbiZ enzyme: a critical activity of the cobamide remodelling system of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The chemical structures of cobamides [cobalamin (Cbl)-like compounds] are the same, except for the lower ligand, which in adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl) is 5,6-dimethylbenzimidazole, and in adenosylpseudocobalamin (AdopseudoCbl) is adenine. Why the lower ligand of cobamides varies and what the mechanism of lower ligand replacement is are long-standing questions in the field of B(12) biosynthesis. Work reported here uncovers the strategy used by the photosynthetic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to procure the cobamide it needs to grow on acetate as a carbon and energy source. On the basis of genetic and biochemical evidence we conclude that, in R. sphaeroides, the activity of the cobyric acid-producing amidohydrolase CbiZ enzyme is essential for the conversion of AdopseudoCbl into AdoCbl, the cobamide needed for the catabolism of acetate. The CbiZ enzyme uses AdopseudoCbl as a substrate, but not AdoCbl. Implications of these findings for cobamide remodelling in R. sphaeroides	2010	4	7	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amidohydrolases; Benzimidazoles; Cobamides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gray	Michael J
19883604	10.1016/j.bpj.2009.07.052	Spectral diffusion and electron-phonon coupling of the B800 BChl a molecules in LH2 complexes from three different species of purple bacteria.	We have investigated the spectral diffusion and the electron-phonon coupling of B800 bacteriochlorophyll a molecules in the peripheral light-harvesting complex LH2 for three different species of purple bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodospirillum molischianum, and Rhodopseudomonas acidophila. We come to the conclusion that B800 binding pockets for Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas acidophila are rather similar with respect to the polarity of the protein environment but that the packaging of the alphabeta-polypeptides seems to be less tight in Rb. sphaeroides with respect to the other two species.	2010	2	22	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biophysics; Crystallography, X-Ray; Diffusion; Electrons; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Peptides; Protein Binding; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodospirillaceae	Baier	J
19878602	10.1186/1752-0509-3-105	A model invalidation-based approach for elucidating biological signalling pathways, applied to the chemotaxis pathway in R. sphaeroides.	Developing methods for understanding the connectivity of signalling pathways is a major challenge in biological research. For this purpose, mathematical models are routinely developed based on experimental observations, which also allow the prediction of the system behaviour under different experimental conditions. Often, however, the same experimental data can be represented by several competing network models. In this paper, we developed a novel mathematical model/experiment design cycle to help determine the probable network connectivity by iteratively invalidating models corresponding to competing signalling pathways. To do this, we systematically design experiments in silico that discriminate best between models of the competing signalling pathways. The method determines the inputs and parameter perturbations that will differentiate best between model outputs, corresponding to what can be measured/observed experimentally. We applied our method to the unknown connectivities in the 	2010	3	1	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Blotting, Western; Chemotaxis; Computational Biology; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Roberts	Mark A J
19878455	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06912.x	A cryptochrome-like protein is involved in the regulation of photosynthesis genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Blue light receptors belonging to the cryptochrome/photolyase family are found in all kingdoms of life. The functions of photolyases in repair of UV-damaged DNA as well as of cryptochromes in the light-dependent regulation of photomorphogenetic processes and in the circadian clock in plants and animals are well analysed. In prokaryotes, the only role of members of this protein family that could be demonstrated is DNA repair. Recently, we identified a gene for a cryptochrome-like protein (CryB) in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The protein lacks the typical C-terminal extension of cryptochromes, and is not related to the Cry DASH family. Here we demonstrate that CryB binds flavin adenine dinucleotide that can be photoreduced by blue light. CryB binds single-stranded DNA with very high affinity (K(d) approximately 10(-8) M) but double-stranded DNA and single-stranded RNA with far lower affinity (K(d) approximately 10(-6) M). Despite of that, no in vitro repair activit	2010	3	3	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Coenzymes; Cryptochromes; DNA Repair; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Single-Stranded; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Pyrimidine Dimers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hendrischk	Anne-Kathrin
19854875	10.1099/ijs.0.011718-0	Rhodobacter johrii sp. nov., an endospore-producing cryptic species isolated from semi-arid tropical soils.	An oval to rod-shaped, phototrophic, purple non-sulfur bacterium, strain JA192(T), was isolated from an enrichment culture of a pasteurized rhizosphere soil sample from a field cultivated with jowar (sorghum) collected from Godumakunta village near Hyderabad, India. Strain JA192(T) is Gram-negative, motile and produces endospores. Phylogenetic analysis on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the strain JA192(T) is closely related to Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1(T) (99.9 % sequence similarity), Rba. megalophilus JA194(T) (99.8 %) and Rba. azotoformans KA25(T) (98.1 %) and clusters with other species of the genus Rhodobacter of the family Rhodobacteraceae. However, DNA-DNA hybridization with Rba. sphaeroides DSM 158(T), Rba. megalophilus JA194(T) and Rba. azotoformans JCM 9340(T) showed relatedness of only 38-57 % with respect to strain JA192(T). On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, DNA-DNA hybridization data and morphological, physiological and chemotaxonomic ch	2010	11	3	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Plant Roots; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter; Soil Microbiology; Sorghum; Spores, Bacterial	Girija	K R
19826864	10.1007/s00284-009-9512-x	Production of phenols and alkyl gallate esters by Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 grows phototrophically with generation doubling time of 18 h on L-phenylalanine when used as sole source of nitrogen. Phenols accumulated in the medium and gallate (0.5 mM) was identified as one of the major product. The others namely protocatechuate (0.2 mM) and caffeate (0.1 mM) and also three putative phenol alkyl esters were identified using Liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS) analysis from the culture supernatant. Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 strain could explain its capability to produce the bioactive compounds during the growth. This study sheds production of bioactive and their biological exploring molecules.	2010	2	23	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Culture Media; Esters; Light; Phenols; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kumavath	Ranjith N
19826863	10.1007/s00284-009-9515-7	Characterization of the photosynthetic apparatus and proteome of Roseobacter denitrificans.	The phototrophic capacity of aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria endows them with a selective advantage over other heterotrophic bacteria in the oligotrophic ocean. Here, we reported the phototrophic features and proteome of an aerobic phototrophic bacterium Roseobacter denitrificans under starvation stress. The fluorescence induction and relaxation measurements suggested that the photosynthetic capacity in R. denitrificans was preserved but was lower than in the photoautotrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The existence of light-harvesting complexes (LH1 and LH2) and the reaction center (RC) in the native membrane were demonstrated through atomic force microscopy image analysis as direct evidence of their phototrophy. The homology-based LH1-RC complex structure was proposed in which RC was the Rb. sphaeroides homolog structure surrounded by the LH1. Moreover, the protein expression profiles of cells in the stationary phase under heterotrophic and mixotrophic conditions sho	2010	2	23	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Proteome; Roseobacter; Sequence Alignment	Tang	Kai
19817684	10.1134/s0006297909080057	Femtosecond phase of charge separation in reaction centers of Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	Difference absorption spectroscopy with temporal resolution of approximately 20 fsec was used to study the primary phase of charge separation in isolated reaction centers (RCs) of Chloroflexus aurantiacus at 90 K. An ensemble of difference (light-minus-dark) absorption spectra in the 730-795 nm region measured at -0.1 to 4 psec delays relative to the excitation pulse was analyzed. Comparison with analogous data for RCs of HM182L mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides having the same pigment composition identified the 785 nm absorption band as the band of bacteriopheophytin Phi(B) in the B-branch. By study the bleaching of this absorption band due to formation of Phi(B)(-), it was found that a coherent electron transfer from P* to the B-branch occurs with a very small delay of 10-20 fsec after excitation of dimer bacteriochlorophyll P. Only at 120 fsec delay electron transfer from P* to the A-branch occurs with the formation of bacteriochlorophyll anion B(A)(-) absorption band at 1028 nm and	2009	12	14	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Spectrum Analysis	Yakovlev	A G
19786126	10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.09.021	Effect of detergent concentration on the thermal stability of a membrane protein: The case study of bacterial reaction center solubilized by N,N-dimethyldodecylamine-N-oxide.	We report on the response of reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (an archetype of membrane proteins) to the exposure at high temperature. The RCs have been solubilized in aqueous solution of the detergent N,N-dimethyldodecylamine-N-oxide (LDAO). Changes in the protein conformation have been probed by monitoring the variation in the absorbance of the bacteriochlorine cofactors and modification in the efficiency of energy transfer from tryptophans to cofactors and among the cofactors (through fluorescence measurements). The RC aggregation taking place at high temperature has been investigated by means of dynamic light scattering. Two experimental protocols have been used: (i) isothermal kinetics, in which the time evolution of RC after a sudden increase of the temperature is probed, and (ii) T-scans, in which the RCs are heated at constant rate. The analysis of the results coming from both the experiments indicates that the minimal kinetic scheme requires an equilibrium ste	2010	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Detergents; Dimethylamines; Hot Temperature; Kinetics; Membrane Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Denaturation; Protein Stability; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Palazzo	Gerardo
19783785	10.1096/fj.09-137356	A novel 11-kDa inhibitory subunit in the F1FO ATP synthase of Paracoccus denitrificans and related alpha-proteobacteria.	The F(1)F(O) and F(1)-ATPase complexes of Paracoccus denitrificans were isolated for the first time by ion exchange, gel filtration, and density gradient centrifugation into functional native preparations. The liposome-reconstituted holoenzyme preserves its tight coupling between F(1) and F(O) sectors, as evidenced by its high sensitivity to the F(O) inhibitors venturicidin and diciclohexylcarbodiimide. Comparison and N-terminal sequencing of the band profile in SDS-PAGE of the F(1) and F(1)F(O) preparations showed a novel 11-kDa protein in addition to the 5 canonical alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon subunits present in all known F(1)-ATPase complexes. BN-PAGE followed by 2D-SDS-PAGE confirmed the presence of this 11-kDa protein bound to the native F(1)F(O)-ATP synthase of P. denitrificans, as it was observed after being isolated. The recombinant 11 kDa and epsilon subunits of P. denitrificans were cloned, overexpressed, isolated, and reconstituted in particulate F(1)F(O) and sol	2010	2	25	FASEB J	FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Enzyme Inhibitors; Molecular Weight; Paracoccus denitrificans; Protein Subunits; Proton-Translocating ATPases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Morales-R..os	Edgar
19778027	10.1021/la9010168	Modification of galactitol dehydrogenase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides D for immobilization on polycrystalline gold surfaces.	Galactitol dehydrogenase (GatDH) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a multifunctional enzyme that catalyzes in the presence of oxidized beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) the interconversion of various multivalent aliphatic alcohols to the corresponding ketones. The recombinant GatDH was provided with an N-terminal His(6)-tag to which distally up to three cysteine residues were attached. This protein construct maintained nearly full enzymatic activity, and it could be covalently immobilized via thiol bonds onto the surface of a gold electrode. Binding of GatDH onto the gold electrode was verified by SPR measurements, and residual enzyme activity was measured by cyclic voltammetry using 1,2-hexanediol as substrate, the cofactor NAD(+) and the redox mediator CTFM (4-carboxy-2,5,7-trinitrofluorenyliden-malonnitrile) in solute form. The results demonstrate the possibility of a directed functional immobilization of proteins on gold surfaces, which represents a proof-of-concept for	2010	1	25	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Calcium Chloride; Catalytic Domain; Cysteine; Electrochemistry; Electrodes; Electron Transport; Enzymes, Immobilized; Gold; Mutation; NAD; Polymers; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sugar Alcohol Dehydrogenases; Sulfhydryl Compounds; Surface Properties	Kornberger	P
19770503	10.1107/S0907444909029163	Effects of impurities on membrane-protein crystallization in different systems.	When starting a protein-crystallization project, scientists are faced with several unknowns. Amongst them are these questions: (i) is the purity of the starting material sufficient? and (ii) which type of crystallization experiment is the most promising to conduct? The difficulty in purifying active membrane-protein samples for crystallization trials and the high costs associated with producing such samples require an extremely pragmatic approach. Additionally, practical guidelines are needed to increase the efficiency of membrane-protein crystallization. In order to address these conundrums, the effects of commonly encountered impurities on various membrane-protein crystallization regimes have been investigated and it was found that the lipidic cubic phase (LCP) based crystallization methodology is more robust than crystallization in detergent environments using vapor diffusion or microbatch approaches in its ability to tolerate contamination in the forms of protein, lipid or other ge	2010	1	26	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kors	Christopher A
19763957	10.1007/978-1-60761-198-1_2	Prokaryotic phototaxis.	Microorganisms have various mechanisms at their disposal to react to (changes in) their ambient light climate (i.e., intensity, color, direction, and degree of polarization). Of these, one of the best studied mechanisms is the process of phototaxis. This process can be described as a behavioral migration-response of an organism toward a change in illumination regime. In this chapter we discuss three of these migration responses, based on swimming, swarming, and twitching motility, respectively. Swimming motility has been studied using a wide range of techniques, usually microscopy based. We present a detailed description of the assays used to study phototaxis in liquid cultures of the phototrophic organisms Halobacterium salinarum, Halorhodospira halophila, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides and briefly describe the molecular basis of these responses. Swarming and twitching motility are processes taking place at the interface between a solid phase and a liquid or gas phase. Although assays to	2010	1	13	Methods Mol Biol	Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)	Acinetobacter; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli Proteins; Halobacterium salinarum; Halorhodospira halophila; Light; Locomotion; Models, Biological; Phytochrome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis	Hoff	Wouter D
19747103	10.1134/s0006297909070153	Characteristics of light-harvesting complex II mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with alterations at the transmembrane helices of beta-subunit.	The peripheral light-harvesting complex II (LHII) is an important component of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In this study, genetic, biochemical, and spectroscopic approaches were applied to investigate the spectral properties and functions of LHII in which two amino acid residues Phe32 and Leu42 in the transmembrane helix domain of pucB-encoded beta-apoprotein were replaced by Leu and Pro. The mutated LHII complex showed blue shift of absorbance peaks in the near infrared region at approximately 801-845 nm in R. sphaeroides. It should be noted that the B800 peak was much lower than that of the native LHII, and transfer energy was efficient from the B800 to the B850 pigments in the LHII complex. The results suggest that the mutated pucB could be expressed in R. sphaeroides, and the functional LHII was assembled into the membrane of R. sphaeroides notwithstanding with the different spectral properties. These mutated residues were indeed critical for the modula	2009	11	9	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Wang	Wanneng
19747101	10.1134/s000629790907013x	Features of structural organization and expression regulation of malate dehydrogenase isoforms from Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2R.	Two isoforms of malate dehydrogenase (MDH), dimeric and tetrameric, have been found in the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2R, devoid of the glyoxylate shunt, which assimilate acetate via the citramalate cycle. Inhibitory analysis showed that the 74-kDa protein is involved in tricarboxylic acid cycle, while the 148-kDa MDH takes part in the citramalate pathway. A single gene encoding synthesis of the isologous subunits of the MDH isoforms was found during molecular-biological investigations. The appearance in the studied bacterium of the tetrameric MDH isoform during growth in the presence of acetate is probably due to the increased level of mdh gene expression, revealed by the real-time PCR, the product of which in cooperation with the citramalate cycle enzymes plays an important role in acetate assimilation.	2009	11	9	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Acetates; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Isoenzymes; Kinetics; Malate Dehydrogenase; Molecular Weight; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Eprintsev	A T
19746968	10.1021/bi9009067	Spectroscopic studies of the AppA BLUF domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: addressing movement of tryptophan 104 in the signaling state.	Previous crystallographic studies of the AppA BLUF domain indicated that Trp104 is capable of undertaking alternate conformations depending on the length of the BLUF domain. A BLUF domain containing a C-terminal deletion (AppA1-126) reveals that Trp104 is partially solvent exposed while a BLUF domain containing a slightly longer carboxyl terminal region (AppA17-133) shows that Trp104 is deeply buried. This observation has led to a model proposing that Trp104 moves from a deeply buried position in the dark state to a solvent-exposed position in the light excited state. In this study we investigated whether there is indeed movement of Trp104 upon light excitation using a combination of NMR and absorption spectroscopy, steady-state fluorescence, and acrylamide quenching of tryptophan fluorescence. Our results indicate that AppA17-133 and AppA1-126 contain Trp104 in distinct alternate conformations in solution and that light absorption by the flavin causes partial movement/uncovering of Tr	2009	11	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Tryptophan	Dragnea	Vladimira
19739593	10.1021/ac901640q	Rapid and sensitive kinetic assay for characterization of omega-transaminases.	For the biocatalytic preparation of optically active amines, omega-transaminases (omega-TA) are of special interest since they allow the asymmetric synthesis starting from prostereogenic ketones with 100% yield. To facilitate the purification and characterization of novel omega-TA, a fast kinetic assay was developed based on the conversion of the widely used model substrate alpha-methylbenzylamine, which is commonly accepted by most of the known omega-TAs. The product from this reaction, acetophenone, can be detected spectrophotometrically at 245 nm with high sensitivity (epsilon = 12 mM(-1) cm(-1)), since the other reactants show only a low absorbance. Besides the standard substrate pyruvate, all low-absorbing ketones, aldehydes, or keto acids can be used as cosubstrates, and thus the amino acceptor specificity of a given omega-TA can be obtained quickly. Furthermore, the assay allows the fast investigation of enzymatic properties like pH and temperature optimum and stability. This me	2009	12	17	Anal Chem	Analytical chemistry	Acetophenones; Benzylamines; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Pyruvic Acid; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Temperature; Transaminases	Sch..tzle	Sebastian
19728138	10.1007/s11120-009-9490-7	Spin labeling EPR.	Site-directed spin labeling in combination with electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy has emerged as an efficient tool to elucidate the structure and conformational dynamics of biomolecules under native-like conditions. This article summarizes the basics as well as recent progress of site-directed spin labeling. Continuous wave EPR spectra analyses and pulse EPR techniques are reviewed with special emphasis on applications to the sensory rhodopsin-transducer complex mediating the photophobic response of the halophilic archaeum Natronomonas pharaonis and the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26.	2011	5	25	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Spin Labels; Time Factors	Klare	Johann P
19703103	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2009.06837.x	(2S)-Methylsuccinyl-CoA dehydrogenase closes the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway for acetyl-CoA assimilation.	Many organic substrates are metabolized via acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and enter central carbon metabolism at the level of this compound. We recently described the outlines of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, a new acetyl-CoA assimilation strategy that operates in a number of bacteria such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Methylobacterium extorquens and streptomycetes and replaces the glyoxylate cycle. This new pathway involves a unique central reaction sequence catalysed by characteristic enzymes. Here, we identified and characterized (2S)-methylsuccinyl-CoA dehydrogenase from R. sphaeroides, a flavin adenine dinucleotide-containing enzyme that catalyses the last unknown step in the central part of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, the oxidation of (2S)-methylsuccinyl-CoA to mesaconyl-(C1)-CoA. This enzyme is highly specific for its substrate and forms a distinct subgroup within the superfamily of flavin-dependent acyl-CoA dehydrogenases. Homology modelling and comparative sequence analyses with wel	2009	11	17	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Acetyl Coenzyme A; Acyl Coenzyme A; Amino Acid Sequence; Coenzymes; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Substrate Specificity	Erb	Tobias J
19691308	10.1021/jp904647m	Energetics of bacterial photosynthesis.	We report the results of extensive numerical simulations and theoretical calculations of electronic transitions in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic bacterium. The energetics and kinetics of five electronic transitions related to the kinetic scheme of primary charge separation have been analyzed and compared to experimental observations. Nonergodic formulation of the reaction kinetics is required for the calculation of the rates due to a severe breakdown of the system ergodicity on the time scale of primary charge separation, with the consequent inapplicability of the standard canonical prescription to calculate the activation barrier. Common to all reactions studied is a significant excess of the charge-transfer reorganization energy from the width of the energy gap fluctuations over that from the Stokes shift of the transition. This property of the hydrated proteins, breaking the linear response of the thermal bath, allows the reaction center to significan	2009	10	16	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Computer Simulation; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lebard	David N
19685879	10.1021/bi900833f	The role of arginine-127 at the proximal NO-binding site in determining the electronic structure and function of 5-coordinate NO-heme in cytochrome c' of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cytochrome c' is a heme protein from a denitrifying variant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides which may serve to store and transport metabolic NO while protecting against NO toxicity. Its heme site bears resemblance through its 5-coordinate NO-binding capability to the regulatory site in soluble guanylate cyclase. A conserved arginine (Arg-127) abuts the 5-coordinate NO-heme binding site, and the alanine mutant R127A provided insight into the role of the Arg-127 in establishing the electronic structure of the heme-NO complex and in modifying the heme-centered redox potential and NO-binding affinity. By comparison to R127A, the wild-type Arg-127 was determined to increase the heme redox potential, diminish the NO-binding affinity, perturb and diminish the 14NO hyperfine coupling determined by ENDOR (electron nuclear double resonance), and increase the maximal electronic g-value. The larger isotropic NO hyperfine and the smaller maximal g-value of the R127A mutant together predicted that the Fe	2009	10	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Arginine; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cytochromes c'; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Heme; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nitric Oxide; Oxidation-Reduction; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Static Electricity	Lee	Byunghoon
19684165	10.1128/AEM.01587-09	Inducible-expression plasmid for Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans.	We have developed a stable isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG)-inducible-expression plasmid, pIND4, which allows graduated levels of protein expression in the alphaproteobacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans. pIND4 confers kanamycin resistance and combines the stable replicon of pMG160 with the lacI(q) gene from pYanni3 and the lac promoter, P(A1/04/03), from pJBA24.	2009	12	1	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Chromosome Mapping; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Isopropyl Thiogalactoside; Kanamycin Resistance; Lac Operon; Molecular Sequence Data; Paracoccus denitrificans; Plasmids; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Replicon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ind	Alice C
19650635	10.1021/jp906565m	Two-photon excitation spectroscopy of carotenoid-containing and carotenoid-depleted LH2 complexes from purple bacteria.	We applied two-photon fluorescence excitation spectroscopy to LH2 complex from purple bacteria Allochromatium minutissimum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides . Bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence was measured under two-photon excitation of the samples within the 1200-1500 nm region. Spectra were obtained for both carotenoid-containing and -depleted complexes of each bacterium to allow their direct comparison. The depletion of carotenoids did not alter the two-photon excitation spectra of either bacteria. The spectra featured a wide excitation band around 1350 nm (2x675 nm, 14,800 cm(-1)) which strongly resembled two-photon fluorescence excitation spectra of similar complexes published by other authors. We consider obtained experimental data to be evidence of direct two-photon excitation of bacteriochlorophyll excitonic states in this spectral region.	2010	2	22	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Stepanenko	Ilya
19603803	10.1021/jp811234q	Internal electrostatic control of the primary charge separation and recombination in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides revealed by femtosecond transient absorption.	We report the observation of two conformational states of closed RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides characterized by different P(+)H(A)(-) --&gt; PH(A) charge recombination lifetimes, one of which is of subnanosecond value (700 +/- 200 ps). These states are also characterized by different primary charge separation lifetimes. It is proposed that the distinct conformations are related to two protonation states either of reduced secondary electron acceptor, Q(A)(-), or of a titratable amino acid residue localized near Q(A). The reaction centers in the protonated state are characterized by faster charge separation and slower charge recombination when compared to those in the unprotonated state. Both effects are explained in terms of the model assuming modulation of the free energy level of the state P(+)H(A)(-) by the charges on or near Q(A) and decay of the P(+)H(A)(-) state via the thermally activated P(+)B(A)(-) state.	2009	11	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gibasiewicz	K
19585969	10.1021/jp902287y	Charge recombination kinetics and protein dynamics in wild type and carotenoid-less bacterial reaction centers: studies in trehalose glasses.	The coupling between electron transfer and protein dynamics has been investigated in reaction centers (RCs) from the wild type (wt) and the carotenoid-less strain R26 of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Recombination kinetics between the primary photoreduced quinone acceptor (QA-) and photoxidized donor (P+) have been analyzed at room temperature in RCs incorporated into glassy trehalose matrices of different water/sugar ratios. As previously found in R26 RCs, also in the wt RC, upon matrix dehydration, P+QA- recombination accelerates and becomes broadly distributed, reflecting the inhibition of protein relaxation from the dark-adapted to the light-adapted conformation and the hindrance of interconversion between conformational substates. While in wet trehalose matrices (down to approximately one water per trehalose molecule) P+QA- recombination kinetics are essentially coincident in wt and R26 RCs, more extensive dehydration leads to two-times faster and more dist	2009	12	14	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Benzoquinones; Carotenoids; Glass; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose; Water	Francia	Francesco
19580770	10.1016/j.bpj.2009.04.031	Protein-induced membrane curvature investigated through molecular dynamics flexible fitting.	In the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides, light is absorbed by membrane-bound light-harvesting (LH) proteins LH1 and LH2. LH1 directly surrounds the reaction center (RC) and, together with PufX, forms a dimeric (RC-LH1-PufX)2 protein complex. In LH2-deficient Rba. sphaeroides mutants, RC-LH1-PufX dimers aggregate into tubular vesicles with a radius of approximately 250-550 A, making RC-LH1-PufX one of the few integral membrane proteins known to actively induce membrane curvature. Recently, a three-dimensional electron microscopy density map showed that the Rba. sphaeroides RC-LH1-PufX dimer exhibits a prominent bend at its dimerizing interface. To investigate the curvature properties of this highly bent protein, we employed molecular dynamics simulations to fit an all-atom structural model of the RC-LH1-PufX dimer within the electron microscopy density map. The simulations reveal how the dimer produces a membrane with high local curvature, even though the l	2009	10	13	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Chromatophores; Computer Simulation; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Electron; Models, Molecular; Models, Theoretical; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Video Recording	Hsin	Jen
19575527	10.1021/bi901015d	Properties of Arg481 mutants of the aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides suggest that neither R481 nor the nearby D-propionate of heme a3 is likely to be the proton loading site of the proton pump.	Cytochrome c oxidase utilizes the energy from electron transfer and reduction of oxygen to water and pumps protons across the membrane, generating a proton motive force. A large body of biochemical work has shown that all the pumped protons enter the enzyme through the D-channel, which is apparent in X-ray structures as a chain of water molecules connecting D132 at the cytoplasmic surface of the enzyme to E286, near the enzyme active site. The exit pathway utilized by pumped protons beyond this point and leading to the bacterial periplasm is not known. Also not known is the proton loading site (or sites) which undergoes changes in pKa in response to the chemistry at the enzyme active site and drives the proton pump mechanism. In this paper, we examine the role of R481, a highly conserved arginine that forms an ion pair with the D-propionate of heme a3. The R481H, R481N, R481Q, and R481L mutants were examined. The R481H mutant oxidase is approximately 18% active and pumps protons with a	2009	11	2	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arginine; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Electrochemistry; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Propionates; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Lee	Hyun Ju
19572670	10.1021/jp903386z	Understanding the spectroscopic properties of the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by a combined theoretical study of absorption and circular dichroism spectra.	In the present study, we calculate eight low-lying (1.3-1.7 eV energy region) electronic excited states in well accordance with the absorption and CD spectroscopic properties of PSRC from Rb. shpaeroides by using time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT). Our present calculations demonstrate that, only when the interactions among the prosthetic groups have been taken into account, a set of satisfactory assignments for both absorption and CD spectra of PSRC from Rb. sphaeroides can be achieved simultaneously.	2009	12	14	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Absorption; Circular Dichroism; Electrons; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Ren	Yanliang
19571004	10.1073/pnas.0813164106	A molecular brake, not a clutch, stops the Rhodobacter sphaeroides flagellar motor.	Many bacterial species swim by employing ion-driven molecular motors that power the rotation of helical filaments. Signals are transmitted to the motor from the external environment via the chemotaxis pathway. In bidirectional motors, the binding of phosphorylated CheY (CheY-P) to the motor is presumed to instigate conformational changes that result in a different rotor-stator interface, resulting in rotation in the alternative direction. Controlling when this switch occurs enables bacteria to accumulate in areas favorable for their survival. Unlike most species that swim with bidirectional motors, Rhodobacter sphaeroides employs a single stop-start flagellar motor. Here, we asked, how does the binding of CheY-P stop the motor in R. sphaeroides--using a clutch or a brake? By applying external force with viscous flow or optical tweezers, we show that the R. sphaeroides motor is stopped using a brake. The motor stops at 27-28 discrete angles, locked in place by a relatively high torque, 	2009	9	9	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Biomechanical Phenomena; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Molecular Motor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Torque	Pilizota	Teuta
19569501		[The analysis of kinetics of recombination of photodivided charges in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers using relaxation time constant distribution method].	The kinetics of dark recombination of charges photodivided between the bacteriochlorophyll dimer (P) and the quinone acceptors of the photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied. The electron transfer between P and the quinone acceptors of times of light activation from 1 to 60 s was investigated. The relaxation time constant distribution was computed from experimental kinetic curves of charge recombination using an original method developed by the authors. In this method, relaxation curves are approximated by a set of Gaussian-like peaks in the time domain that correspond to different conformational substates of reaction centers. As the time of photoactivation increases, some peaks shift toward larger relaxation times. A bifurcation of the peaks was observed for the activation times from 20 to 30 s. The phenomenon is interpreted as evidence of the conformational transition induced by separated charges in the structure of reaction centers.	2009	8	11	Biofizika	Biofizika	Electricity; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lukashev	E P
19564920	10.1371/journal.pone.0006096	Bacterial ortholog of mammalian translocator protein (TSPO) with virulence regulating activity.	The translocator protein (TSPO), previously designated as peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor, is a protein mainly located in the outer mitochondrial membrane of eukaryotic cells. TSPO is implicated in major physiological functions and functionally associated with other proteins such as the voltage-dependent anionic channel, also designated as mitochondrial porin. Surprisingly, a TSPO-related protein was identified in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides but it was initially considered as a relict of evolution. In the present study we cloned a tspO gene in Pseudomonas fluorescens MF37, a non-photosynthetic eubacterium and we used bioinformatics tools to identify TSPO in the genome of 97 other bacteria. P. fluorescens TSPO was recognized by antibodies against mouse protein and by PK 11195, an artificial ligand of mitochondrial TSPO. As in eukaryotes, bacterial TSPO appears functionally organized as a dimer and the apparent Kd for PK 11195 is in the same range than fo	2009	11	17	PLoS One	PloS one	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Benzodiazepines; Cell Adhesion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Mice; Mitochondria; Mitochondrial Membranes; Models, Biological; Models, Genetic; Pseudomonas fluorescens; Receptors, GABA; Receptors, GABA-A; Virulence	Chapalain	Annelise
19563766	10.1016/j.ab.2009.06.035	Identification of heme propionate vibrational modes in the resonance Raman spectra of cytochrome c oxidase.	The propionate groups of heme a and a(3) in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) have been postulated to mediate both the electron and proton transfer within the enzyme. To establish structural markers for the propionate groups, their associated vibrational modes were identified in the resonance Raman spectra of CcO from bovine (bCcO) and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsCcO). The distinction between the modes from the propionates of heme a and heme a(3), as well as those from the propionates on the pyrrole rings A and D in each heme, was made on the basis of H2O-D2O isotope substitution experiments combined with wavelength-selective resonance enhancement (for bCcO) or mutagenesis studies (for RsCcO).	2009	11	2	Anal Biochem	Analytical biochemistry	Animals; Cattle; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Vibration	Egawa	Tsuyoshi
19557347	10.1007/s12275-008-0210-3	Expression and regulation of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase genes in Mycobacterium sp. strain JC1 DSM 3803.	Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO) is the key enzyme of the Calvin reductive pentose phosphate cycle. Two sets of structural genes (cbbLS-1 and -2) for form I RubisCO have been previously identified in the Mycobacterium sp. strain JC1, which is able to grow on carbon monoxide (CO) or methanol as sole sources of carbon and energy. Northern blot and reverse transcriptase PCR showed that the cbbLS-1 and -2 genes are expressed in cells grown on either carbon monoxide (CO) or methanol, but not in cells grown in nutrient broth. A promoter assay revealed that the cbbLS-2 promoter has a higher activity than the cbbLS-1 promoter in both CO- and methanol-grown cells, and that the activities of both promoters were higher in CO-grown cells than in methanol-grown cells. A gel mobility shift assay and footprinting assays showed that CbbR expressed in Escherichia coli from a cbbR gene, which is located downstream of cbbLS-1 and transcribed in the same orientation as that of the	2009	8	11	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Blotting, Northern; Carbon Monoxide; DNA Footprinting; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electron Transport Chain Complex Proteins; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Methanol; Molecular Sequence Data; Mycobacterium; Protein Binding; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Transcription Factors	Lee	Jae Ho
19555655	10.1016/j.bbabio.2009.06.007	Export or recombination of charges in reaction centers in intact cells of photosynthetic bacteria.	The kinetics and thermodynamics of forward and reverse electron transfer around the reaction center of purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides were studied in vivo by flash-excited delayed fluorescence, prompt fluorescence (induction) and kinetic difference absorption. By protection of the photomultiplier from intense bacteriochlorophyll prompt fluorescence evoked by laser excitation, the time resolution of the fluorometer was reduced typically 10 micros. Two precursor states of the delayed fluorescence were identified: P(+)Q(A)(-) and cyt c(2)(3+)Q(A)(-) whose enthalpy levels were 340 meV and 1020 meV below A, respectively. The free energy of the P(+)Q(A)(-) state relative to A* was -870 meV in whole cells. Similar values were obtained earlier for isolated reaction center and chromatophore. The free energies of cyt c(2)(3+)Q(A)(-) and P(+)Q(A)(-) states showed no or very weak (-6 meV/pH unit) pH-dependence, respectively, supporting the concept of pH-independent redox midpoint potenti	2009	10	22	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Entropy; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Recombination, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Asztalos	Emese
19545029		[Degradation of dichlorvos by Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	Rhodobacter sphaeroides possesses an extensive range of energy acquiring mechanisms including photosynthesis, lithotrophy, aerobic and anaerobic respiration. It can produce 5-aminolevulinic acid, CoQ10, carotenoids, hydrogen, etc. by fermentation. A Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain was isolated, designated as EBL0706, from soil. The degradation of dichlorvos (DDVP) by the Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated. 98% of DDVP could be degraded in water solution in 12 h when 5 x 10(8) CFU/mL Rhodobacter sphaeroides was added to 400 mg/L DDVP solution under pH 6.9-7.5 and 20-50 degrees C. This strain could also degrade the DDVP residues on Chinese cabbage leaves effectively.	2009	10	27	Huan Jing Ke Xue	Huan jing ke xue= Huanjing kexue	Biodegradation, Environmental; Dichlorvos; Insecticides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zhao	Kai
19527655	10.1016/j.bpj.2009.03.031	Identification of the intermediate charge-separated state P+betaL- in a leucine M214 to histidine mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center using femtosecond midinfrared spectroscopy.	Energy and electron transfer in a Leu M214 to His (LM214H) mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center (RC) were investigated by applying time-resolved visible pump/midinfrared probe spectroscopy at room temperature. This mutant replacement of the Leu at position M214 resulted in the incorporation of a bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) in place of the native bacteriopheophytin in the L-branch of cofactors (denoted betaL). Purified LM214H RCs were excited at 600 nm (unselective excitation), at 800 nm (direct excitation of the monomeric BChl cofactors B(L) and B(M)), and at 860 nm (direct excitation of the primary donor (P) BChl pair (P(L)/P(M))). Absorption changes associated with carbonyl (C=O) stretch vibrational modes (9-keto, 10a-ester, and 2a-acetyl) of the cofactors and of the protein were recorded in the region between 1600 cm(-1) and 1770 cm(-1), and the data were subjected to both a sequential analysis and a simultaneous target analysis. After photoexcitation of the LM214H R	2009	8	25	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacteriochlorophylls; Free Radicals; Histidine; Leucine; Models, Biological; Mutation, Missense; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Time Factors	Pawlowicz	Natalia P
19508644	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2009.00554.x	Characterization of an unusual LOV domain protein in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The facultatively phototrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 harbors a LOV (light, oxygen and voltage) domain protein, which shows a particular structure. LOV domains perceive blue light by a noncovalently bound flavin and transmit the signal to various coupled output domains. Proteins, that harbor a LOV core, function e.g. as phototropins or circadian clock regulators. Jalpha helices, which act as linker between the LOV core and the output domain, were shown to be involved in the light-dependent activation of the output domain. Like PpSB2 from Pseudomonas putida, the LOV domain protein of R. sphaeroides is not coupled to an effector domain and harbors an extended C-terminal alpha helix. We expressed the R. sphaeroides LOV domain recombinantly in Escherichia coli. The protein binds an FMN as a cofactor and shows a photocycle typical for LOV domain containing proteins. In R. sphaeroides, we detected the protein as well in the cytoplasm as in the membrane fraction, which	2009	12	3	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Hendrischk	Anne-Kathrin
19496556	10.1021/jp9008898	Proton-transfer reactions in reaction center of photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The mechanism of proton uptakes by the secondary ubiquinone (Q(B)) in the reaction center of the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides is investigated theoretically. Two protons are transferred to the secondary ubiquinone (Q(B)) upon two electron transfers to it. The pathways of the proton transfers are explored through molecular dynamics and free-energy calculations by a molecular mechanical method and potential energy surface calculations by a hybrid ab initio quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical method. Initial locations of donor protons are identified at Glu-L212 and at Asp-L210. It is shown that the first proton transfer takes place from Glu-L212 to Q(B) through their direct hydrogen bond only when the second electron is transferred to Q(B). The second proton transfer from Asp-L210 to Q(B) proceeds through long-range hydrogen-bond network bridges connecting them. The hydrogen-bond network bridges are occasionally formed with several water molecules in the water molecu	2009	8	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Aspartic Acid; Electron Transport; Glutamic Acid; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Kaneko	Yu
19486388	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2009.04314.x	Kinetic model of hydrogen generation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the presence of NH ions.	To examine the effects of ammonium ion concentration and illumination intensity on the effectivness of the hydrogen generation process of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In all experiments the amount of evolved hydrogen, biomass growth, concentration of ammonium ions, pH and chemical oxygen demand were measured. A nonstructural kinetic model was applied in description of biomass growth, the amount of evolved hydrogen and consumption of organic compounds and ammonium ions. An increase of ammonium ions concentration resulted in a decrease of maximal specific hydrogen potential production. At higher ammonium ion concentrations, no hydrogen evolution was observed. The efficiency of malic acid conversion into hydrogen and the PHB content in the biomass were the highest with lower concentrations of nitrogen compounds. The presence of ammonium ions inhibits hydrogen photogeneration. A good agreement between the experimental data and model simulations were obtained. In all cases, hydrogen evolution s	2010	5	11	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Biomass; Bioreactors; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroxybutyrates; Kinetics; Light; Malates; Models, Biological; Oxygen; Polyesters; Quaternary Ammonium Compounds; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Walig..rska	M
19482930	10.1128/JB.00429-09	Genetic determinants of Silicibacter sp. TM1040 motility.	Silicibacter sp. TM1040 is a member of the marine Roseobacter clade of Alphaproteobacteria that forms symbioses with unicellular eukaryotic phytoplankton, such as dinoflagellates. The symbiosis is complex and involves a series of steps that physiologically change highly motile bacteria into cells that readily form biofilms on the surface of the host. The initial phases of symbiosis require bacterial motility and chemotaxis that drive the swimming bacteria toward their planktonic host. Cells lacking wild-type motility fail to establish biofilms on host cells and do not produce effective symbioses, emphasizing the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms controlling flagellar biosynthesis and the biphasic "swim-or-stick" switch. In the present study, we used a combination of bioinformatic and genetic approaches to identify the genes critical for swimming of Silicibacter sp. TM1040. More than 40 open reading frames with homology to known flagellar structural and regulatory gen	2009	7	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Biofilms; Caulobacter crescentus; DNA Transposable Elements; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Locomotion; Multigene Family; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodobacteraceae; Sequence Homology	Belas	Robert
19463779	10.1016/j.bbabio.2009.05.006	Critical structural role of R481 in cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The R481 residue in cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides forms hydrogen bonds with the propionate groups of both heme a and heme a(3). It has been postulated that R481 is the proton loading site in the proton exit pathway essential for proton translocation. A recent functional study showed that the mutations of R481 to His, Leu and Gln cause the reduction of the activity to approximately 5-18% of the native level, and the absence of proton pumping in R481Q but retention of approximately 40% efficiency in R481H and R481L (H.J. Lee, L. Ojemyr, A. Vakkasoglu, P. Brzezinski and R. B. Gennis, manuscript submitted). To decipher the molecular mechanism underlying the perturbed functionalities, we have used resonance Raman spectroscopy to examine the structural properties of the three mutants. The data show that the frequencies of the formyl CO stretching modes of both the heme a and a(3) in the mutants are characteristic of formyl groups exposed to an aqueous environment, indicat	2009	9	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Arginine; Catalytic Domain; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Structure-Activity Relationship	Egawa	Tsuyoshi
19463100	10.1134/s0006297909040142	Properties of mutant reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with substitutions of histidine L153, the axial Mg2+ ligand of bacteriochlorophyll B(A).	Mutant reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been studied in which histidine L153, the axial ligand of the central Mg atom of bacteriochlorophyll B(A) molecule, was substituted by cysteine, methionine, tyrosine, or leucine. None of the mutations resulted in conversion of the bacteriochlorophyll B(A) to a bacteriopheophytin molecule. Isolated H(L153)C and H(L153)M RCs demonstrated spectral properties similar to those of the wild-type RC, indicating the ability of cysteine and methionine to serve as stable axial ligands of the Mg atom of bacteriochlorophyll B(A). Because of instability of mutant H(L153)L and H(L153)Y RCs, their properties were studied without isolation of these complexes from the photosynthetic membranes. The most prominent effect of the mutations was observed with substitution of histidine by tyrosine. According to the spectral data and the results of pigment analysis, the B(A) molecule is missing in the H(L153)Y RC. Nevertheless, being associated with	2009	7	27	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Histidine; Ligands; Magnesium; Molecular Conformation; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Leonova	M M
19441283	10.1166/jnn.2009.j084	The electronic behavior of a photosynthetic reaction center monitored by conductive atomic force microscopy.	The conductivity of a photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was measured with conductive atomic force microscopy (CAFM) on SAM-modified Au(111) substrates. 2-mercaptoethanol (2ME), 2-mercaptoacetic acid (MAC), 2-mercaptopyridine (2MP) and 4-mercaptopyridine (4MP) were prepared as SAM materials to investigate the stability and morphology of RCs on the substrate by using near-IR absorption spectroscopy and AFM, respectively. The clear presence of the three well known RC near-IR absorption peaks indicates that the RCs were native on the SAM-modified Au(111). Dense grains with various diameters of 5-20 nm, which corresponded to mixtures of single RCs up to aggregates of 10, were observed in topographs of RCs adsorbed on all the different SAM-modified Au(111) substrates. The size of currents obtained from the RC using a bare conductive cantilever were produced in the following order for SAM molecules: 2MP &gt; 2ME &gt; 4MP &gt; MAC. A clear rectification of this c	2009	6	10	J Nanosci Nanotechnol	Journal of nanoscience and nanotechnology	Electric Conductivity; Electrochemistry; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mikayama	Takeshi
19439660	10.1073/pnas.0812719106	Electron transfer in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center assembled with zinc bacteriochlorophyll.	The cofactor composition and electron-transfer kinetics of the reaction center (RC) from a magnesium chelatase (bchD) mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were characterized. In this RC, the special pair (P) and accessory (B) bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) -binding sites contain Zn-BChl rather than BChl a. Spectroscopic measurements reveal that Zn-BChl also occupies the H sites that are normally occupied by bacteriopheophytin in wild type, and at least 1 of these Zn-BChl molecules is involved in electron transfer in intact Zn-RCs with an efficiency of &gt;95% of the wild-type RC. The absorption spectrum of this Zn-containing RC in the near-infrared region associated with P and B is shifted from 865 to 855 nm and from 802 to 794 nm respectively, compared with wild type. The bands of P and B in the visible region are centered at 600 nm, similar to those of wild type, whereas the H-cofactors have a band at 560 nm, which is a spectral signature of monomeric Zn-BChl in organic solvent. The Zn-BChl	2009	6	23	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electrochemical Techniques; Electron Transport; Evolution, Molecular; Kinetics; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Zinc	Lin	Su
19411327	10.1128/JB.00243-09	Regulation of gene expression by PrrA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1: role of polyamines and DNA topology.	In the present study, we show in vitro binding of PrrA, a global regulator in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, to the PrrA site 2, within the RSP3361 locus. Specific binding, as shown by competition experiments, requires the phosphorylation of PrrA. The binding affinity of PrrA for site 2 was found to increase 4- to 10-fold when spermidine was added to the binding reaction. The presence of extracellular concentrations of spermidine in growing cultures of R. sphaeroides gave rise to a twofold increase in the expression of the photosynthesis genes pucB and pufB, as well as the RSP3361 gene, under aerobic growth conditions, as shown by the use of lacZ transcriptional fusions, and led to the production of light-harvesting spectral complexes. In addition, we show that negative supercoiling positively regulates the expression of the RSP3361 gene, as well as pucB. We show the importance of supercoiling through an evaluation of the regulation of gene expression in situ by supercoiling, in the ca	2009	6	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Novobiocin; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Phosphorylation; Photosynthesis; Polyamines; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spermidine; Topoisomerase II Inhibitors	Eraso	Jesus M
19411326	10.1128/JB.00244-09	Half-Site DNA sequence and spacing length contributions to PrrA binding to PrrA site 2 of RSP3361 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The consensus DNA binding sequence for PrrA, a global regulator in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1, is poorly defined. We have performed mutational analysis of PrrA site 2, of the RSP3361 gene, to which PrrA binds in vitro (J. M. Eraso and S. Kaplan, J. Bacteriol. 191:4341-4352, 2009), to further define the consensus sequence for DNA binding. Two half-sites of equal length, containing 6 nucleotides each, were required for PrrA binding to this DNA sequence. Systematic nucleotide substitutions in both inverted half-sites led to a decrease in binding affinity of phosphorylated PrrA in vitro, the level of which was dependent on the substitution. The reduced binding affinities were confirmed by competition experiments and led to proportional decreases in the expression of lacZ transcriptional fusions to the RSP3361 gene in vivo. The 5-nucleotide spacer region between the half-sites was found to be optimal for PrrA binding to the wild-type half-sites, as shown by decreased PrrA DNA binding aff	2009	6	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; DNA, Intergenic; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid	Eraso	Jesus M
19404680	10.1007/s00438-009-0448-4	Expression of four pha genes involved in poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate production and accumulation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1.	A cluster of genes encoding polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) depolymerase (phaZ), PHB synthase (phaC), phasin (phaP), and the regulator protein (phaR) was previously identified in Rhodobacter sphaeroides FJ1 (R. sphaeroides FJ1). In this study, we investigated the role of the PhaR protein on the expression of the pha genes. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the expressions of phaP, phaZ and phaR genes in wild-type cells of R. sphaeroides FJ1 are repressed during the active growth phase, with the exception of phaC. A phaR deletion mutant of R. sphaeroides FJ1 was constructed, and the basal level of phaP and phaZ expression in this mutant was markedly increased. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that PhaR binds to the promoter region of phaP as well as those of phaR and phaZ. These results suggest that the PhaR protein is a repressor of phaP, phaR, and phaZ genes in R. sphaeroides FJ1.	2009	6	25	Mol Genet Genomics	Molecular genetics and genomics : MGG	Acyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Carboxylic Ester Hydrolases; DNA Primers; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Hydroxybutyrates; Multigene Family; Polyesters; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Chou	Min-En
19397279	10.1021/bi9001387	Redox-dependent conformational changes in cytochrome C oxidase suggest a gating mechanism for proton uptake.	A role for conformational change in the coupling mechanism of cytochrome c oxidase is the subject of controversy. Relatively small conformational changes have been reported in comparisons of reduced and oxidized crystal structures of bovine oxidase but none in bacterial oxidases. Comparing the X-ray crystal structures of the reduced (at 2.15 A resolution) and oxidized forms of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we observe a displacement of heme a(3) involving both the porphyrin ring and the hydroxyl farnesyl tail, accompanied by protein movements in nearby regions, including the mid part of helix VIII of subunit I which harbors key residues of the K proton uptake path, K362 and T359. The conformational changes in the reduced form are reversible upon reoxidation. They result in an opening of the top of the K pathway and more ordered waters being resolved in that region, suggesting an access path for protons into the active site. In all high-resolution structures of oxidi	2009	7	30	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Catalytic Domain; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qin	Ling
19395480	10.1128/JB.00262-09	In vivo sensitivity of blue-light-dependent signaling mediated by AppA/PpsR or PrrB/PrrA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Formation of photosynthesis complexes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is regulated in a redox- and light-dependent manner by the AppA/PpsR and PrrB/PrrA systems. While on the one hand, blue light is sensed by the flavin adenine dinucleotide-binding BLUF domain of AppA, on the other, light is absorbed by bacteriochlorophyll signals through PrrB/PrrA. We show that much smaller quantities initiate the AppA-mediated response to blue light than the bacteriochlorophyll-mediated response.	2009	6	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Northern; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light Signal Transduction; Repressor Proteins; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Metz	Sebastian
19385692	10.1021/jp8056042	Monitoring and interpretation of photoinduced biochemical processes by rapid-scan FTIR difference spectroscopy and hybrid hard and soft modeling.	Natural photochemical processes often require special instrumentation to monitor them at a suitable time scale. Rapid-scan FTIR difference spectroscopy is one of the preferred techniques to obtain rich structural information in the scale of milliseconds about photochemical processes of complex natural systems. The difference spectra obtained by this technique enhance the fine spectroscopic changes undergone during the process but require powerful data analysis methodologies to take full advantage of the information provided. Hybrid hard- and soft-modeling methodologies allow for coping with difficulties linked to the nature of the time-resolved measurement and to the complexity of the kinetic model describing the natural photochemical process. Thus, this methodology presents the following advantages: (a) handles difference spectra, taking into account the consequences of the lack of measurement about the initial stage of the process, (b) models events of the process that may be defined	2009	6	19	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Time Factors	Blanchet	Lionel
19376876	10.1128/JB.00230-09	In vivo analysis of cobinamide salvaging in Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1.	The genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides encodes the components of two distinct pathways for salvaging cobinamide (Cbi), a precursor of adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl, coenzyme B(12)). One pathway, conserved among bacteria, depends on a bifunctional kinase/guanylyltransferase (CobP) enzyme to convert adenosylcobinamide (AdoCbi) to AdoCbi-phosphate (AdoCbi-P), an intermediate in de novo AdoCbl biosynthesis. The other pathway, of archaeal origin, depends on an AdoCbi amidohydrolase (CbiZ) enzyme to generate adenosylcobyric acid (AdoCby), which is converted to AdoCbi-P by the AdoCbi-P synthetase (CobD) enzyme. Here we report that R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 synthesizes AdoCbl de novo and that it salvages Cbi using both of the predicted Cbi salvaging pathways. AdoCbl produced by R. sphaeroides was identified and quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography and bioassay. The deletion of cobB (encoding an essential enzyme of the de novo corrin ring biosynthetic pathway) resulted in a strain 	2009	6	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Biosynthetic Pathways; Cobamides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gray	Michael J
19372156	10.1099/mic.0.024455-0	Identification of the binding site of the {sigma}54 hetero-oligomeric FleQ/FleT activator in the flagellar promoters of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Expression of the flagellar genes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is dependent on one of the four sigma-54 factors present in this bacterium and on the enhancer binding proteins (EBPs) FleQ and FleT. These proteins, in contrast to other well-characterized EBPs, carry out activation as a hetero-oligomeric complex. To further characterize the molecular properties of this complex we mapped the binding sites or upstream activation sequences (UASs) of six different flagellar promoters. In most cases the UASs were identified at approximately 100 bp upstream from the promoter. However, the activity of the divergent promoters flhAp-flgAp, which are separated by only 53 bp, is mainly dependent on a UAS located approximately 200 bp downstream from each promoter. Interestingly, a significant amount of activation mediated by the upstream or contralateral UAS was also detected, suggesting that the architecture of this region is important for the correct regulation of these promoters. Sequence analysis o	2009	6	11	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Conserved Sequence; Flagella; Molecular Sequence Data; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; RNA Polymerase Sigma 54; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcriptional Activation	Pe..a-S..nchez	J
19354215	10.1021/ja808697e	Laterally mobile, functionalized self-assembled monolayers at the fluorous-aqueous interface in a plug-based microfluidic system: characterization and testing with membrane protein crystallization.	This paper describes a method to generate functionalizable, mobile self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) in plug-based microfluidics. Control of interfaces is advancing studies of biological interfaces, heterogeneous reactions, and nanotechnology. SAMs have been useful for such studies, but they are not laterally mobile. Lipid-based methods, though mobile, are not easily amenable to setting up the hundreds of experiments necessary for crystallization screening. Here we demonstrate a method, complementary to current SAM and lipid methods, for rapidly generating mobile, functionalized SAMs. This method relies on plugs, droplets surrounded by a fluorous carrier fluid, to rapidly explore chemical space. Specifically, we implemented his-tag binding chemistry to design a new fluorinated amphiphile, RfNTA, using an improved one-step synthesis of RfOEG under Mitsunobu conditions. RfNTA introduces specific binding of protein at the fluorous-aqueous interface, which concentrates and orients proteins 	2009	7	1	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Crystallization; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Hydrocarbons, Fluorinated; Membrane Proteins; Membranes, Artificial; Microfluidics; Surface Properties; Water	Kreutz	Jason E
19348783	10.1016/j.bbabio.2009.03.018	Effect of subunit IV on superoxide generation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc(1) complex.	Previous studies indicate that the three-subunit cytochrome bc(1) core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides contains a fraction of the electron transfer activity of the wild-type enzyme. Addition of subunit IV to the core complex increases electron transfer activity to the same level as that of the wild-type complex. This activity increase may result from subunit IV preventing electron leakage, from the low potential electron transfer chain, and reaction with molecular oxygen, producing superoxide anion. This suggestion is based on the following observations: (1) the extent of cytochrome b reduction in the three-subunit core complex, by ubiquinol, in the presence of antimycin A, never reaches the same level as that in the wild-type complex; (2) the core complex produces 4 times as much superoxide anion as does the wild-type complex; and (3) when the core complex is reconstituted with subunit IVs having varying reconstitutive activities, the activity increase in reconstituted complexes co	2009	8	13	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Cytochromes b; Electron Transport Complex III; Electron Transport Complex IV; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides	Yin	Ying
19344748	10.1016/j.bbagen.2009.03.023	Internal charge transfer in cytochrome c oxidase at a limited proton supply: proton pumping ceases at high pH.	In the membrane-bound enzyme cytochrome c oxidase, electron transfer from cytochrome c to O(2) is linked to proton uptake from solution to form H(2)O, resulting in a charge separation across the membrane. In addition, the reaction drives pumping of protons across the membrane. In this study we have measured voltage changes as a function of pH during reaction of the four-electron reduced cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with O(2). These electrogenic events were measured across membranes containing purified enzyme reconstituted into lipid vesicles. The results show that the pH dependence of voltage changes (primarily associated with proton transfer) during O(2) reduction does not match that of the previously studied absorbance changes (primarily associated with electron transfer). Furthermore, the voltage changes decrease with increasing pH. The data indicate that cytochrome c oxidase does not pump protons at high pH (10.5) (or protons are taken from the "wrong" side of 	2009	8	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Membrane Potentials; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lepp	H..kan
19334594		[Enzymes of the citramalate cycle in Rhodospirillum rubrum].	Rhodospirillum rubrum is among the bacteria that can assimilate acetate in the absence of isocitrate lyase, the key enzyme of glyoxylate shunt. Previously we have suggested the functioning of a new anaplerotic cycle of acetate assimilation in this bacterium: citramalate cycle, where acetyl-CoA is oxidized to glyoxylate. This work has demonstrated the presence of all the key enzymes of this cycle in R. rubrum extracts: citramalate synthase catalyzing condensation of acetyl-CoA and pyruvate with the formation of citramalate, mesaconase forming mesaconate from L-citramalate, and the enzymes catalyzing transformation of propyonyl-CoA + glyoxylate &lt;--&gt; 3-methylmalyl-CoA &lt;--&gt; mesaconyl-CoA. At the same time, R. rubrum synthesizes crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase, which is the key enzyme of ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway discovered recently in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Physiological differences between the citramalate cycle and the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway are discussed.	2009	5	1	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Acetates; Acetyltransferases; Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenases; Acyltransferases; Bacterial Proteins; Hydro-Lyases; Malates; Methylmalonyl-CoA Decarboxylase; Pyruvic Acid; Rhodospirillum rubrum	Berg	I A
19324392	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2009.02.023	Development of a dynamic delivery method for in vitro bioassays.	Measuring the biological activity of hydrophobic chemicals using in vitro assays is challenging because their aqueous solubility is low and the high density of bio-suspensions strongly decreases the bioavailability of hydrophobic pollutants. Dynamic dosing by partitioning from a stable polymer has a potential to overcome these limitations. Poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) was chosen due to its documented bio-compatibility and excellent partitioning properties. PDMS sheets were loaded with five polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and then immersed in model bio-suspensions composed of membrane vesicles ("chromatophores", composed of 30% lipids and 70% proteins) isolated from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides or phospholipid bilayer vesicles (liposomes) composed of palmitoyl-oleoyl phosphatidylcholine (POPC). Method development included the determination of partition coefficients between chromatophores or liposomes and water, desorption rate constants from PDMS to bio-	2009	7	10	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Adsorption; Algorithms; Biological Assay; Chromatophores; Diffusion; Dimethylpolysiloxanes; Environmental Pollutants; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Liposomes; Models, Chemical; Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons; Time Factors; Water	Kwon	Jung-Hwan
19306840	10.1016/j.bbabio.2009.03.011	The local electric field within phospholipid membranes modulates the charge transfer reactions in reaction centres.	Three different cholesterol derivatives and phloretin, known to affect the local electric field in phospholipid membranes, have been introduced into Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre-containing phospholipid liposomes. We show that cholesterol and 6-ketocholestanol significantly slow down the interquinone first electron transfer (approximately 10 times), whereas phloretin and 5-cholesten-3beta-ol-7-one leave the kinetics essentially unchanged. Interestingly, the two former compounds have been shown to increase the dipole potential, whereas the two latter decrease it. We also measured in isolated RCs the rates of the electron and proton transfers at the first flash. Over the pH range 7-10.5 both reactions display biphasic behaviors with nearly superimposable rates and amplitudes, suggesting that the gating process limiting the first electron transfer is indeed the coupled proton entry. We therefore interpret the effects of cholesterol and 6-ketocholestanol as due to dipole concentr	2009	8	27	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Anthraquinones; Cell Membrane; Cholesterol; Electromagnetic Fields; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ketocholesterols; Kinetics; Liposomes; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Models, Molecular; Phloretin; Phosphatidylcholines; Phospholipids; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Pilotelle-Bunner	Anne
19290870	10.1042/BST0370400	The petite purple photosynthetic powerpack.	Photoreaction centres are Nature's solar batteries. These nanometre-scale power producers are responsible for transducing the energy of sunlight into a form that can be used by biological systems, thereby powering most of the biological activity on the planet. Although to the layman the word 'photosynthesis' is usually associated with green plants, much of our understanding of the molecular basis of biological transduction of light energy has come from studies of purple photosynthetic bacteria. Their RCs (reaction centres) and attendant light-harvesting complexes have been subjected to an intensive spectroscopic scrutiny, coupled with genetic manipulation and structural studies, that has revealed many of the molecular and mechanistic details of biological energy transfer, electron transfer and coupled proton translocation. This review provides a short overview of the structure and mechanism of the purple bacterial RC, focusing in the main on the most heavily studied complex from Rhodob	2009	5	11	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jones	Michael R
19285988	10.1016/j.jmb.2009.03.020	Proton-transfer pathways in photosynthetic reaction centers analyzed by profile hidden markov models and network calculations.	In the bacterial reaction center (bRC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the key residues of proton transfer to the secondary quinone (Q(B)) are known. Also, several possible proton entry points and proton-transfer pathways have been proposed. However, the mechanism of the proton transfer to Q(B) remains unclear. The proton transfer to Q(B) in the bRC of Blastochloris viridis is less explored. To analyze whether the bRCs of different species use the same key residues for proton transfer to Q(B), we determined the conservation of these residues. We performed a multiple-sequence alignment based on profile hidden Markov models. Residues involved in proton transfer but not located at the protein surface are conserved or are only exchanged to functionally similar amino acids, whereas potential proton entry points are not conserved to the same extent. The analysis of the hydrogen-bond network of the bRC from R. sphaeroides and that from B. viridis showed that a large network connects Q(B) with the	2009	5	19	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Conserved Sequence; Hyphomicrobiaceae; Models, Molecular; Models, Statistical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Krammer	Eva-Maria
19277486	10.1007/s12010-009-8576-1	Cultivation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the stirred bioreactor with different feeding strategies for CoQ(10) production.	The logistic growth model combined with the Luedeking-Piret equation was adopted in this study to model the batch production of CoQ(10) in the cultivation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The simulation results indicated that CoQ(10) production was a primary metabolite. As being a primary metabolite, a longer cell growing stage would tend to accumulate more biomass and lead to a higher CoQ(10) concentration being produced. In this context, a fed-batch operation by molasses feeding was performed to increase the biomass and subsequent CoQ(10) production. Three different molasses feeding strategies were operated in this study. Results suggested that the fed-batch operation with molasses controlled at 10 + or - 1 g/l could increase the cell mass and CoQ(10) concentration to reach their maximum values of 18.6 g/l and 83.8 mg/l, respectively, nearly 2.2 times and 1.9 times their respective values obtained in the batch cultivation.	2010	5	3	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	Biomass; Bioreactors; Biotechnology; Computer Simulation; Fermentation; Logistic Models; Molasses; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors; Ubiquinone	Yen	Hong-Wei
19265434	10.1021/bi900045x	Atomic force microscopy studies of native photosynthetic membranes.	In addition to providing the earliest surface images of a native photosynthetic membrane at submolecular resolution, examination of the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) of purple bacteria by atomic force microscopy (AFM) has revealed a wide diversity of species-dependent arrangements of closely packed light-harvesting (LH) antennae, capable of fulfilling the basic requirements for efficient collection, transmission, and trapping of radiant energy. A highly organized architecture was observed with fused preparations of the pseudocrystalline ICM of Blastochloris viridis, consiting of hexagonally packed monomeric reaction center light-harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complexes. Among strains which also form a peripheral LH2 antenna, images of ICM patches from Rhodobacter sphaeroides exhibited well-ordered, interconnected networks of dimeric RC-LH1 core complexes intercalated by rows of LH2, coexisting with LH2-only domains. Other peripheral antenna-containing species, notably Rhodospirillum phot	2009	6	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photochemistry; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Proteobacteria; Thylakoids	Sturgis	James N
19252222	10.1074/jbc.M808839200	Active site of cytochrome cbb3.	Cytochrome cbb(3) is the most distant member of the heme-copper oxidase family still retaining the following major feature typical of these enzymes: reduction of molecular oxygen to water coupled to proton translocation across the membrane. The thermodynamic properties of the six redox centers, five hemes and a copper ion, in cytochrome cbb(3) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were studied using optical and EPR spectroscopy. The low spin heme b in the catalytic subunit was shown to have the highest midpoint redox potential (E(m)(,7) +418 mV), whereas the three hemes c in the two other subunits titrated with apparent midpoint redox potentials of +351, +320, and +234 mV. The active site high spin heme b(3) has a very low potential (E(m)(,7) -59 mV) as opposed to the copper center (Cu(B)), which has a high potential (E(m)(,7) +330 mV). The EPR spectrum of the ferric heme b(3) has rhombic symmetry. To explain the origins of the rhombicity, the Glu-383 residue located on the proximal side of hem	2009	6	8	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Aspartic Acid; Biological Transport; Catalysis; Catalytic Domain; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamine; Heme; Ions; Mutagenesis; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Rauham..ki	Virve
19247510	10.1039/b811014j	Relaxation mechanism of molecular systems containing hydrogen bonds and free energy temperature dependence of reaction of charges recombination within Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC.	The mechanism of protonic relaxation is shown to take place in molecular systems containing hydrogen bonds. The mechanism arises from the proton redistribution between two stable states on hydrogen bond lines. This redistribution occurs due to changes of hydrogen bond double well potential, brought about by changes of the electronic state of a molecular system. A characteristic of the relaxation process is that it takes place due to the proton tunneling along hydrogen bonds. The charge shift causes electrostatic potential variation in the electron localization area, which leads to the shift of molecular system energy levels and changes its redox potential. The characteristic time of the protonic relaxation is shown to depend essentially on hydrogen bond bending strain, which increases with the temperature rise and decreases abruptly the efficiency of proton redistribution. Hence, the rate of this process decreases with temperature, in contrast to the activation process. This relaxation	2009	4	27	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Potentiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Stress, Mechanical; Thermodynamics	Krasilnikov	Pavel Mikhailovich
19243111	10.1021/bi8021284	Microscopic pKa analysis of Glu286 in cytochrome c oxidase (Rhodobacter sphaeroides): toward a calibrated molecular model.	As stringent tests for the molecular model and computational protocol, microscopic pK(a) calculations are performed for the key residue, Glu286, in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) using a combined quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical (QM/MM) potential and a thermodynamic integration protocol. The impact of the number of water molecules in the hydrophobic cavity and protonation state of several key residues (e.g., His334, Cu(B)-bound water, and PRD(a3)) on the computed microscopic pK(a) values of Glu286 has been systematically examined. To help evaluate the systematic errors in the QM/MM-based protocol, microscopic pK(a) calculations have also been carried out for sites in a soluble protein (Asp70 in T4 lysozyme) and a better-characterized membrane protein (Asp85 in bacteriorhodopsin). Overall, the results show a significant degree of internal consistency and reproducibility that support the effectiveness of the computational framework. Although the number of water molecules in the hydrop	2010	4	5	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamine; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Ghosh	Nilanjan
19232051	10.1134/s0006297909010106	Mutant reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides I(L177)H with strongly bound bacteriochlorophyll a: structural properties and pigment-protein interactions.	Methods of photoinduced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy and circular dichroism were employed for studying features of pigment-protein interactions caused by replacement of isoleucine L177 by histidine in the reaction center (RC) of the site-directed mutant I(L177)H of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. A functional state of pigments in the photochemically active cofactor branch was evaluated with the method of photo-accumulation of reduced bacteriopheophytin H(A)(-). The results are compared with those obtained for wild-type RCs. It was shown that the dimeric nature of the radical cation of the primary electron donor P was preserved in the mutant RCs, with an asymmetric charge distribution between the bacteriochlorophylls P(A) and P(B) in the P(+) state. However, the dimers P in the wild-type and mutant RCs are not structurally identical due probably to molecular rearrangements of the P(A) and P(B) macrocycles and/or alterations in their nearest amino acid environment i	2009	4	10	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Bacteriochlorophylls; Circular Dichroism; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutant Proteins; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Zabelin	A A
19218458	10.1073/pnas.0811450106	A mitochondrial DNA mutation linked to colon cancer results in proton leaks in cytochrome c oxidase.	An increasing number of cancer types have been found to be linked to specific mutations in the mitochondrial DNA, which result in specific structural changes of the respiratory enzyme complexes. In this study, we have investigated the effect of 2 such mutations identified in colon cancer patients, leading to the amino acid substitutions Ser458Pro and Gly125Asp in subunit I of cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) [Greaves et al. (2006) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103:714-719]. We introduced these mutations in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which carries an oxidase that serves as a model of the mitochondrial counterpart. The lack of expression of the former variant indicates that the amino acid substitution results in severely altered overall structure of the enzyme. The latter mutation (Gly171Asp in the bacterial oxidase) resulted in a structurally intact enzyme, but with reduced activity (approximately 30%), mainly due to slowed reduction of the redox site heme a. Furthermore, even though the Gly171	2009	4	1	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Biological Transport; Colonic Neoplasms; DNA, Mitochondrial; Electron Transport Complex IV; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Namslauer	Ida
19205890	10.1007/s10529-009-9942-3	Characterization of D-tagatose-3-epimerase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides that converts D-fructose into D-psicose.	A non-characterized gene, previously proposed as the D-tagatose-3-epimerase gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Its molecular mass was estimated to be 64 kDa with two identical subunits. The enzyme specificity was highest with D-fructose and decreased for other substrates in the order: D-tagatose, D-psicose, D-ribulose, D-xylulose and D-sorbose. Its activity was maximal at pH 9 and 40 degrees C while being enhanced by Mn(2+). At pH 9 and 40 degrees C, 118 g D-psicose l(-1) was produced from 700 g D-fructose l(-1) after 3 h.	2009	7	30	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Amino Acid Sequence; Carbohydrate Epimerases; Cloning, Molecular; Enzyme Activators; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Fructose; Gene Expression; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Manganese; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Weight; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Substrate Specificity; Temperature	Zhang	Longtao
19199074	10.1007/s11120-009-9408-4	Kinetics of in vivo bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence yield and the state of photosynthetic apparatus of purple bacteria.	The light-induced electron transport in purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied in vivo by means of kinetic difference absorption spectroscopy and kinetics of bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence yield. Measurements of redox state of the oxidised primary donor and cytochrome c and the membrane potential revealed a complex pattern of changes of the electron flow. Effects of the membrane potential on the fluorescence yield were also analysed, and a model for the fluorescence induction curve is presented. The data indicate substantial positive effect of the membrane potential on the fluorescence emission in vivo. Moreover, light-induced changes in light scattering were observed, which suggests occurrence of structural changes on the level of the photosynthetic membrane.	2009	6	12	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Light; Membrane Potentials; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bina	David
19181802	10.1128/JB.01523-08	Different biochemical mechanisms ensure network-wide balancing of reducing equivalents in microbial metabolism.	To sustain growth, the catabolic formation of the redox equivalent NADPH must be balanced with the anabolic demand. The mechanisms that ensure such network-wide balancing, however, are presently not understood. Based on 13C-detected intracellular fluxes, metabolite concentrations, and cofactor specificities for all relevant central metabolic enzymes, we have quantified catabolic NADPH production in Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Paracoccus versutus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Sinorhizobium meliloti, and Zymomonas mobilis. For six species, the estimated NADPH production from glucose catabolism exceeded the requirements for biomass synthesis. Exceptions were P. fluorescens, with balanced rates, and E. coli, with insufficient catabolic production, in which about one-third of the NADPH is supplied via the membrane-bound transhydrogenase PntAB. P. versutus and B. subtilis were the only species that appear to rely on transhydrogenases f	2009	4	10	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Glucose; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; NADP; NADP Transhydrogenases	Fuhrer	Tobias
19161296	10.1021/bi801990s	Identification of FTIR bands due to internal water molecules around the quinone binding sites in the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The bacterial reaction center (RC) is a membrane protein complex that performs photosynthetic electron transfer from a bacteriochlorophyll dimer to quinone acceptors Q(A) and Q(B). Q(B) accepts electrons from the primary quinone, Q(A), in two sequential electron transfer reactions coupled to uptake of a proton from solution. It has been suggested that water molecules along the proton uptake pathway are protonated upon quinone reduction on the basis of FTIR difference spectra [Breton, J., and Nabedryk, E. (1998) Photosynth. Res. 55, 301-307]. We examined the possible involvement of water molecules in the photoreaction processes by studying (18)O water isotope effects on FTIR difference spectra resulting from formation of Q(A)(-) and Q(B)(-). Continuum bands in D(2)O due to Q(B)(-) formation in the 2300-1800 cm(-1) region did not show spectral shifts by (18)O water in the wild-type (WT) RC, suggesting that these bands do not originate from (protonated) water. In contrast, the Q(B)(-)/Q(B	2009	7	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Light; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Vibration; Water	Iwata	Tatsuya
19153771	10.1007/s00449-008-0294-5	Coenzyme Q10 production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides in stirred tank and in airlift bioreactor.	A higher Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) concentration of 25.04 mg/l was found in airlift bioreactor than the value of 18.11 mg/l obtained in stirred tank under the aerobic-dark cultivation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Aeration rate didn't show obvious impact to CoQ(10) production in airlift bioreactor. The fed-batch operation in airlift bioreactor could increase the biomass concentration and led to the maximum CoQ(10) concentration of 33.91 mg/l measured, but a lower CoQ(10) cell content (3.5 mg CoQ(10)/DCW) was observed in the fed-batch operation as compared to the batch operation. To enhance the CoQ(10) content, an aeration-change strategy was proposed in the fed-batch operation of airlift bioreactor. This strategy led to the maximum CoQ(10) concentration of 45.65 mg/l, a 35% increase as compared to the simple fed-batch operation. The results of this study suggested that a fed-batch operation in airlift bioreactor accompanying aeration-change could be suitable for CoQ(10) production.	2009	11	16	Bioprocess Biosyst Eng	Bioprocess and biosystems engineering	Aerobiosis; Biomass; Biomedical Engineering; Bioreactors; Darkness; Equipment Design; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Yen	Hong-Wei
19125347	10.1007/s10482-008-9301-8	Light-activated cytotoxic compounds from Malaysian microorganisms for photodynamic therapy of cancer.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a promising cancer treatment which involves activation of a photosensitizing drug with light to produce reactive oxygen species that kill tumors without causing damage to unirradiated normal tissues. To date, only Photofrin, Foscan and Levulan have been approved for clinical treatment of cancer. Tropical habitats such as those found in Malaysia are attractive sources of new therapeutic compounds as tremendous chemical diversity is found in a large number of plants, animals, marine- and micro-organisms. In our screening program for novel photosensitizers from nature, colorful strains of fungi (from Aspergillus and Penicillium genus) and bacteria (including actinomycetes and photosynthetic bacteria) were collected from various habitats in Peninsular Malaysia, such as coastal soil, peat soil, marine sponges and wastewater ponds. Methanolic extracts from a total of 85 different species were evaluated with a short-term cell viability assay for photo-cytotoxicit	2009	2	10	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek	Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Animals; Antineoplastic Agents; Bacteria; Cell Line, Tumor; Cell Survival; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Fungi; Humans; Light; Malaysia; Photochemotherapy; Porifera; Soil Microbiology; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Water Microbiology	Kamal	Nurkhalida
19115814	10.1021/jp807468c	Unusual temperature dependence of photosynthetic electron transfer due to protein dynamics.	The initial electron transfer rate and protein dynamics in wild type and five mutant reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been studied as a function of temperature (10-295 K). Detailed kinetic measurements of initial electron transfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers can be quantitatively described by a reaction diffusion formalism at all temperatures from 10 to 295 K. In this model, the time course of electron transfer is determined by the ability of the protein to interconvert between conformations until one is found where the activation energy for electron transfer is near zero. In reaction centers with a free energy for electron transfer similar to wild type, the reaction proceeds at least as fast at cryogenic temperatures as at room temperature. This may be because interconversion between conformations at low temperature is restricted to conformations with near zero activation energy (it is not possible to diffuse away from this region of conformational sp	2009	3	24	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Data Interpretation, Statistical; Diffusion; Electron Transport; Models, Statistical; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Proteins; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Wang	Haiyu
20596372	10.1007/s11671-009-9303-0	Biological Synthesis of Size-Controlled Cadmium Sulfide Nanoparticles Using Immobilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Size-controlled cadmium sulfide nanoparticles were successfully synthesized by immobilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides in the study. The dynamic process that Cd(2+) was transported from solution into cell by living R. sphaeroides was characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Culture time, as an important physiological parameter for R. sphaeroides growth, could significantly control the size of cadmium sulfide nanoparticles. TEM demonstrated that the average sizes of spherical cadmium sulfide nanoparticles were 2.3 +/- 0.15, 6.8 +/- 0.22, and 36.8 +/- 0.25 nm at culture times of 36, 42, and 48 h, respectively. Also, the UV-vis and photoluminescence spectral analysis of cadmium sulfide nanoparticles were performed. 	2016	5	28	Nanoscale Res Lett	Nanoscale research letters	NA	Bai	Hongjuan
19108635	10.1021/bi801391r	EPR evidence of cyanide binding to the Mn(Mg) center of cytochrome c oxidase: support for Cu(A)-Mg involvement in proton pumping.	We examined the anion binding behavior of the Mg(Mn) site in cytochrome c oxidase to test a possible role of this center in proton pumping. Rhodobacter sphaeroides grown in a Mn(II)-rich medium replaces the intrinsic Mg(II) ion with an EPR-detectable Mn(II) ion without change in activity. Due to its close proximity and a shared ligand, oxidized Cu(A) is spin-coupled to the Mn(II) ion, affecting the EPR spectrum. An examination of both bovine and R.s. oxidase crystal structures reveals a hydrogen-bonding pattern in the vicinity of the Mg(II) site that is consistent with three water ligands of the Mg(Mn) center when Cu(A) is oxidized. In the reduced structure, one water molecule in the vicinity of the Cu(A) ligand, E198, moves closer, appearing to be converted into an ionically bonded hydronium ion, while a second water molecule bonded to Mg(Mn) shows evidence of conversion to a hydroxide. The implied proton movement is proposed to be part of a redox-linked export of a pumped proton from	2009	2	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Binding Sites; Cattle; Copper; Cyanides; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Bonding; Ligands; Magnesium; Manganese; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Sharpe	Martyn A
19099453	10.1021/jp806789x	Proton environment of reduced Rieske iron-sulfur cluster probed by two-dimensional ESEEM spectroscopy.	The proton environment of the reduced [2Fe-2S] cluster in the water-soluble head domain of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISF) from the cytochrome bc(1) complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied by orientation-selected X-band 2D ESEEM. The 2D spectra show multiple cross-peaks from protons, with considerable overlap. Samples in which (1)H(2)O water was replaced by (2)H(2)O were used to determine which of the observed peaks belong to exchangeable protons, likely involved in hydrogen bonds in the neighborhood of the cluster. By correlating the cross-peaks from 2D spectra recorded at different parts of the EPR spectrum, lines from nine distinct proton signals were identified. Assignment of the proton signals was based on a point-dipole model for interaction with electrons of Fe(III) and Fe(II) ions, using the high-resolution structure of ISF from Rb. sphaeroides. Analysis of experimental and calculated tensors has led us to conclude that even 2D spectra do not completely resolve	2009	2	19	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Bacterial Proteins; Cysteine; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex III; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Isotopes; Ligands; Magnetics; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Kolling	Derrick R J
19053185	10.1021/ja806873e	Spectroscopic and computational studies of nitrite reductase: proton induced electron transfer and backbonding contributions to reactivity.	A combination of spectroscopy and DFT calculations has been used to define the geometric and electronic structure of the nitrite bound type 2 (T2) copper site at high and low pH in nitrite reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. At high pH there is no electron transfer from reduced type 1 (T1) to the nitrite bound T2 copper, while protonation triggers T1 --&gt; T2 electron transfer and generation of NO. The DFT calculated reaction coordinate for the N-O bond cleavage in nitrite reduction by the reduced T2 copper suggests that the process is best described as proton transfer triggering electron transfer. Bidentate nitrite binding to copper is calculated to play a major role in activating the reductive cleavage of the nitrite bond through backbonding combined with stabilization of the (-)OH product by coordination to the Cu(2+).	2009	3	23	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Catalytic Domain; Circular Dichroism; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electrons; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Ghosh	Somdatta
18798732	10.1042/BSR20080061	Expression characterization and actual function of the second pucBA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The puc2BA operon of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is highly similar to the original puc1BA operon. Genetic, biochemical and spectroscopic approaches were used to investigate the function of puc2BA; the puc1BA and puc2BA structural genes were amplified and cloned into the pRK415 vector controlled by the puc promoter from R. sphaeroides, which was then introduced into R. sphaeroides mutant strains. The results indicated that puc2BA was normally expressed and puc2BA-encoded polypeptides were assembled into membrane LHII (light-harvesting II) complexes, although the puc2A-encoded polypeptide was much larger than the puc1A-encoded polypeptide. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) and SDS/PAGE indicated that puc1BA and puc2BA were expressed in R. sphaeroides when integrated into the genome or expressed from vectors. Furthermore, the polypeptides from the puc1BA and puc2BA genes were both involved in LHII assembly, and pucC is also necessary to assemble LHII complexes. Nevertheless	2009	7	23	Biosci Rep	Bioscience reports	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Genes, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	Wanneng
21629589	10.1007/s10867-009-9183-7	Electronic pathway in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	The reaction centers (RC) of Chloroflexus aurantiacus and Rhodobacter sphaeroidesH(M182)L mutant were investigated. Prediction for electron transfer (ET) at very low temperatures was also performed. To describe the kinetics of the C. aurantiacus RCs, the incoherent model of electron transfer was used. It was shown that the asymmetry in electronic coupling parameters must be included to explain the experiments. For the description of R. sphaeroidesH(M182)L mutant RCs, the coherent and incoherent models of electron transfer were used. These two models are discussed with regard to the observed electron transfer kinetics. It seems likely that the electron transfer asymmetry in R. sphaeroides RCs is caused mainly by the asymmetry in the free energy levels of L- and M-side cofactors. In the case of C. aurantiacus RCs, the unidirectionality of the charge separation can be caused mainly by the difference in the electronic coupling parameters in two branches.	2011	7	14	J Biol Phys	Journal of biological physics	Asymmetry in electron transfer; Charge-separating reactions; Electron transfer; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers; Primary charge separation; Quantum yields; Rate constants; Solar energy	Pudlak	Michal
21314602	10.1134/s0006297910110064	Catalase activity of cytochrome C oxidase assayed with hydrogen peroxide-sensitive electrode microsensor.	An iron-hexacyanide-covered microelectrode sensor has been used to continuously monitor the kinetics of hydrogen peroxide decomposition catalyzed by oxidized cytochrome oxidase. At cytochrome oxidase concentration ~1 ..M, the catalase activity behaves as a first order process with respect to peroxide at concentrations up to ~300-400 ..M and is fully blocked by heat inactivation of the enzyme. The catalase (or, rather, pseudocatalase) activity of bovine cytochrome oxidase is characterized by a second order rate constant of ~2..10(2) M(-1)..sec(-1) at pH 7.0 and room temperature, which, when divided by the number of H2O2 molecules disappearing in one catalytic turnover (between 2 and 3), agrees reasonably well with the second order rate constant for H2O2-dependent conversion of the oxidase intermediate F(I)-607 to F(II)-580. Accordingly, the catalase activity of bovine oxidase may be explained by H2O2 procession in the oxygen-reducing center of the enzyme yielding superoxide radicals. Mu	2011	5	31	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Animals; Biosensing Techniques; Calibration; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Peroxide; Mitochondria; Mutation; Myocardium; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity	Bolshakov	I A
21192830	10.1186/1471-2180-10-331	The prevalence of gene duplications and their ancient origin in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is a metabolically versatile organism that belongs to ..-3 subdivision of Proteobacteria. The present study was to identify the extent, history, and role of gene duplications in R. sphaeroides 2.4.1, an organism that possesses two chromosomes. A protein similarity search (BLASTP) identified 1247 orfs (~29.4% of the total protein coding orfs) that are present in 2 or more copies, 37.5% (234 gene-pairs) of which exist in duplicate copies. The distribution of the duplicate gene-pairs in all Clusters of Orthologous Groups (COGs) differed significantly when compared to the COG distribution across the whole genome. Location plots revealed clusters of gene duplications that possessed the same COG classification. Phylogenetic analyses were performed to determine a tree topology predicting either a Type-A or Type-B phylogenetic relationship. A Type-A phylogenetic relationship shows that a copy of the protein-pair matches more with an ortholog from a species closely	2011	4	20	BMC Microbiol	BMC microbiology	Chromosomes, Bacterial; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Duplication; Prevalence; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bavishi	Anish
21161306	10.1007/s00775-010-0742-y	Cloning, expression, and physicochemical characterization of a new diheme cytochrome c from Shewanella baltica OS155.	The 16-kDa diheme cytochrome c from the bacterium Shewanella baltica OS155 (Sb-DHC) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli and investigated through UV-vis, magnetic circular dichroism, and (1)H NMR spectroscopies and protein voltammetry. The model structure was obtained by means of comparative modeling using the X-ray structure of Rhodobacter sphaeroides diheme cytochrome c (Rs-DHC) (with a 37% pairwise sequence identity) as a template. Sb-DHC folds into two distinct domains, each containing one heme center with a bis-His axial ligation. Both secondary and tertiary structures of the N-terminal domain resemble those of class I cytochrome c, displaying three ..-helices and a compact overall folding. The C-terminal domain is less helical than the corresponding domain of Rs-DHC. The two heme groups are bridged by Tyr26 in correspondence with the shortest edge-to-edge distance, a feature which would facilitate fast internal electron transfer. The electronic properties of the two prost	2011	6	22	J Biol Inorg Chem	Journal of biological inorganic chemistry : JBIC : a publication of the Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Circular Dichroism; Electrochemistry; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidoreductases; Protein Structure, Secondary; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Shewanella; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Thermodynamics	Di Rocco	Giulia
21152381	10.1088/1367-2630/12/8/085005	Energy Transfer Dynamics in an RC-LH1-PufX Tubular Photosynthetic Membrane.	Light absorption and the subsequent transfer of excitation energy are the first two steps of the photosynthetic process, carried out by protein-bound pigments, mainly bacteriochlorophylls (BChls), in photosynthetic bacteria. BChls are anchored in light-harvesting (LH) complexes, such as light-harvesting complex I (LH1), which directly associates with the reaction center (RC), forming the RC-LH1 core complex. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, RC-LH1 core complexes contain an additional protein, PufX, and assemble into dimeric RC-LH1-PufX core complexes. In the absence of light-harvesting complexes II, the former complexes can aggregate into a helically ordered tubular photosynthetic membrane. We examined the excitation transfer dynamics in a single RC-LH1-PufX core complex dimer using the hierarchical equations of motion for dissipative quantum dynamics that accurately, yet computationally costly, treat the coupling between BChls and their protein environment. A widely employed description, g	2021	10	20	New J Phys	New journal of physics	NA	Hsin	Jen
21141811	10.1021/bi101496c	Light-induced conformational changes in photosynthetic reaction centers: dielectric relaxation in the vicinity of the dimer.	Conformational changes near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer induced by continuous illumination were identified in the wild type and 11 different mutants of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The properties of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, which has a different hydrogen bonding pattern with the surrounding protein in each mutant, were characterized by steady-state and transient optical spectroscopy. After illumination for 1 min, in the absence of the secondary quinone, the recovery of the charge-separated states was nearly 1 order of magnitude slower in one group of mutants including the wild type than in the mutants carrying the Leu to His mutation at the L131 position. The slower recovery was accompanied by a substantial decrease in the electrochromic absorption changes associated with the Q(y) bands of the nearby monomers during the illumination. The other set of mutants containing the Leu L131 to His substitution exhibited slightly altered electrochromic changes that decr	2012	12	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Deshmukh	Sasmit S
21124924	10.1371/journal.pone.0014070	Bridging the gap: linking molecular simulations and systemic descriptions of cellular compartments.	Metabolic processes in biological cells are commonly either characterized at the level of individual enzymes and metabolites or at the network level. Often these two paradigms are considered as mutually exclusive because concepts from neither side are suited to describe the complete range of scales. Additionally, when modeling metabolic or regulatory cellular systems, often a large fraction of the required kinetic parameters are unknown. This even applies to such simple and extensively studied systems like the photosynthetic apparatus of purple bacteria. Using the chromatophore vesicles of Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a model system, we show that a consistent kinetic model emerges when fitting the dynamics of a molecular stochastic simulation to a set of time dependent experiments even though about two thirds of the kinetic parameters in this system are not known from experiment. Those kinetic parameters that were previously known all came out in the expected range. The simulation model 	2011	4	27	PLoS One	PloS one	Algorithms; Bacterial Chromatophores; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex III; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthesis; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Systems Biology	Geyer	Tiham..r
21110976	10.1016/j.febslet.2010.11.035	On the midpoint potential of the FAD chromophore in a BLUF-domain containing photoreceptor protein.	The redox-midpoint potential of the FAD chromophore in the BLUF domain of anti-transcriptional regulator AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides equals ...-260mV relative to the calomel electrode. Altering the structure of its chromophore-binding pocket through site-directed mutagenesis brings this midpoint potential closer to that of free flavin in aqueous solution. The redox-midpoint potential of this BLUF domain is intermediate between those of LOV domains and Cryptochromes, which may rationalize the primary photochemistry observed in these three flavin-containing photoreceptor families. These results also imply that LOV domains, among the flavin-containing photosensory receptors, are least sensitive to intracellular chemical reduction in the dark.	2011	3	15	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Algorithms; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cryptochromes; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Kinetics; Light; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Arents	Jos C
21108722	10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02381.x	Anoxygenic photosynthesis and photooxidative stress: a particular challenge for Roseobacter.	Roseobacter clade aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria (AAnP) are abundant in photic zone environments of marine ecosystems. These bacteria form a photosynthetic apparatus at oxygen saturation, a situation expected to generate high levels of singlet oxygen (..O...) when light is present. Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an anaerobic anoxygenic phototroph, represses photosynthesis genes at high oxygen tension. Here we report that Roseobacter denitrificans showed higher sensitivity to ..O... compared with Rhb. sphaeroides. While photosynthetic membranes of Rsb. denitrificans generated more ..O... during light exposure, key regulator genes rpoE and rpoH(II) were more strongly induced in response to ..O... stress compared with Rhb. sphaeroides. The regulon controlled by RpoE was different in Rsb. denitrificans and Rhb. sphaeroides. Patterns of synthesized soluble proteins strongly changed upon high light exposure in Rsb. denitrificans but not in Rhb. sphaeroides, and most changes were not furt	2011	8	1	Environ Microbiol	Environmental microbiology	Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Regulator; Light; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Roseobacter; Singlet Oxygen	Berghoff	Bork Ansgar
21104179	10.1007/s00203-010-0652-y	Acetate-dependent photoheterotrophic growth and the differential requirement for the Calvin-Benson-Bassham reductive pentose phosphate cycle in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RubisCO)-deletion strain 16 was capable of photoheterotrophic growth with acetate, while Rhodopseudomonas palustris RubisCO-deletion strain 2040 could not grow under these conditions. The reason for this difference lies in the fact that Rba. sphaeroides and Rps. palustris use different pathways for acetate assimilation, the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, and glyoxylate-bypass cycle, respectively. The ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway is distinct from the glyoxylate cycle as one molecule of CO(2) and one molecule of HCO(3) (-) per three molecules of acetyl-CoA are co-assimilated to form two malate molecules. The glyoxylate cycle directly converts two acetyl-CoA molecules to malate. Each pathway, therefore, also dictates at what point, CO(2) and reductant are consumed, thereby determining the requirement for the Calvin-Benson-Bassham reductive pentose phosphate cycle.	2011	4	8	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Acetates; Acetyl Coenzyme A; Acyl Coenzyme A; Gene Deletion; Pentosephosphates; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase	Laguna	Rick
21093852	10.1016/j.carres.2010.10.007	Stereoisomeric separation of some flavanones using highly succinate-substituted ..-cyclosophoro-octadecaoses as chiral additives in capillary electrophoresis.	..-Cyclosophoro-octadecaoses (..-C18), produced by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, are mostly homogeneous in size with 18 glucose units per ring as the predominant form. ..-C18s are linked by ..-(1...4)-linkages and one ..-(1...6)-linkage and are also known to be highly substituted by acetyl (0-2 per mol) and/or succinoyl groups (1-7 per mol). We isolated and purified ..-C18 and successfully used it in capillary electrophoresis (CE) as a chiral additive for the separation of five flavanones and flavanone-7-O-glycosides, including naringenin, hesperetin, eriodictyol, homoeriodictyol, isosakuranetin, and hesperidin. Throughout the CE experiment with unsubstituted ..-C18 (u..-C18) obtained after alkaline treatment of the isolated ..-C18, we found that successful chiral separation critically depends on the presence of succinate substituents attached to ..-C18 in CE, suggesting that succinoylation of ..-C18 is decisive for effective stereoisomeric separation.	2011	5	25	Carbohydr Res	Carbohydrate research	Electrophoresis, Capillary; Flavanones; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Molecular Structure; Stereoisomerism; Succinic Acid; Temperature; alpha-Cyclodextrins	Kwon	Chanho
21090818	10.1021/jp107051r	Electron-nuclear and electron-electron double resonance spectroscopies show that the primary quinone acceptor QA in reaction centers from photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides remains in the same orientation upon light-induced reduction.	Reaction centers (RCs) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides R-26 exhibit changes in the recombination kinetics of the charge-separated radical-pair state, P(..+) Q(A)(..-), composed of the dimeric bacteriochlorophyll donor P and the ubiquinone-10 acceptor Q(A), depending on whether the RCs are cooled to cryogenic temperatures in the dark or under continuous illumination (Kleinfeld et al. Biochemistry 1984, 23, 5780-5786). Structural changes near redox-active cofactors have been postulated to be responsible for these changes in kinetics and to occur in the course of light-induced oxidation and reduction of the cofactors thereby assuring a high quantum yield. Here we investigated such potential light-induced structural changes, associated with the formation of P(..+) Q(A)(..-), via pulsed electron-nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) at Q-band (34 GHz) and pulsed electron-electron double resonance (PELDOR) at W-band (95 GHz). Two types of light excitation have been	2011	3	31	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electrons; Free Radicals; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Flores	Marco
21082791	10.1021/bi1002162	A Q63E Rhodobacter sphaeroides AppA BLUF domain mutant is locked in a pseudo-light-excited signaling state.	The AppA BLUF photoreceptor from Rhodobacter sphaeroides contains a conserved key residue, Gln63, that is thought to undergo a shift in hydrogen-bonding interactions when a bound flavin is light excited. In this study we have characterized two substitution mutants of Gln63 (Q63E, Q63L) in the context of two constructs of the BLUF domain that have differing lengths, AppA1-126 and AppA17-133. Q63L mutations in both constructs exhibit a blue-shifted flavin absorption spectrum as well as a loss of the photocycle. Altered fluorescence emission and fluorescence quenching of the Q63L mutant indicate significant perturbations of hydrogen bonding to the flavin and surrounding amino acids which is confirmed by (1)H-(15)N HSQC NMR spectroscopy. The Q63E substitution mutant is constitutively locked in a lit signaling state as evidenced by a permanent 3 nm red shift of the flavin absorption, quenching of flavin fluorescence emission, analysis of (1)H-(15)N HSQC spectra, and the inability of full-le	2011	1	6	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Gel; Flavoproteins; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Dragnea	Vladimira
21070832	10.1016/j.biosystems.2010.10.017	Rhodobase, a meta-analytical tool for reconstructing gene regulatory networks in a model photosynthetic bacterium.	We present Rhodobase, a web-based meta-analytical tool for analysis of transcriptional regulation in a model anoxygenic photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The gene association meta-analysis is based on the pooled data from 100 of R. sphaeroides whole-genome DNA microarrays. Gene-centric regulatory networks were visualized using the StarNet approach (Jupiter, D.C., VanBuren, V., 2008. A visual data mining tool that facilitates reconstruction of transcription regulatory networks. PLoS ONE 3, e1717) with several modifications. We developed a means to identify and visualize operons and superoperons. We designed a framework for the cross-genome search for transcription factor binding sites that takes into account high GC-content and oligonucleotide usage profile characteristic of the R. sphaeroides genome. To facilitate reconstruction of directional relationships between co-regulated genes, we screened upstream sequences (-400 to +20bp from start codons) of all genes for put	2011	5	20	Biosystems	Bio Systems	Binding Sites; Computer Simulation; Data Mining; Gene Regulatory Networks; Internet; Models, Biological; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software; Transcription Factors	Moskvin	Oleg V
21061598		[Hydrogen release by recombinant strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using a modified photosynthetic apparatus].	Hydrogen release by recombinant strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides pRK puf DD13 without a peripheral light-harvesting antenna complex and pRK puf deltaLM1 which is able to synthesize both antenna complexes, both of which were grown in conditions of nitrogen limitation, has been studied. The velocity of hydrogen release depended on light intensity. At high cell concentration (0.91 g l(-1)) of pRK puf DD 13, velocity was maximal at 2270 W m(-2) and was equal to 144.7 ml l(-1) h(-1) that evidences to an opportunity to increase the volume velocity of hydrogen release by application of the strains with low content of pigments.	2010	12	10	Prikl Biokhim Mikrobiol	Prikladnaia biokhimiia i mikrobiologiia	Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation; Hydrogen; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	El'tsova	Z A
20964330	10.1021/ja107244g	Intricate role of water in proton transport through cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CytcO), the final electron acceptor in the respiratory chain, catalyzes the reduction of O(2) to H(2)O while simultaneously pumping protons across the inner mitochondrial or bacterial membrane to maintain a transmembrane electrochemical gradient that drives, for example, ATP synthesis. In this work mutations that were predicted to alter proton translocation and enzyme activity in preliminary computational studies are characterized with extensive experimental and computational analysis. The mutations were introduced in the D pathway, one of two proton-uptake pathways, in CytcO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides . Serine residues 200 and 201, which are hydrogen-bonded to crystallographically resolved water molecules halfway up the D pathway, were replaced by more bulky hydrophobic residues (Ser200Ile, Ser200Val/Ser201Val, and Ser200Val/Ser201Tyr) to query the effects of changing the local structure on enzyme activity as well as proton uptake, release, and intermediate tra	2011	3	4	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Ion Transport; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selection, Genetic; Serine; Water	Lee	Hyun Ju
20960251	10.1134/S1607672910050108	Electrochemical shift of the carotenoid molecule absorption band as an indicator of processes of energy migration in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2014	7	9	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Carotenoids; Electrochemical Techniques; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paschenko	V Z
20939096	10.1002/btpr.506	Redox homeostasis phenotypes in RubisCO-deficient Rhodobacter sphaeroides via ensemble modeling.	Photosynthetic bacteria are capable of carrying out the fundamental biological processes of carbon dioxide assimilation and photosynthesis. In this work, ensemble modeling (EM) was used to examine the behavior of mutant strains of the nonsulfur purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing a blockage in the primary CO(2) assimilatory pathway, which is responsible for cellular redox balance. When the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) pathway is nonfunctional, spontaneous adaptive mutations have evolved allowing for the use of at least two separate alternative redox balancing routes enabling photoheterotrophic growth to occur. The first of these routes expresses the nitrogenase complex, even in the presence of normal repressing ammonia levels, dissipating excess reducing power via its inherent hydrogenase activity to produce large quantities of hydrogen gas. The second of these routes may dissipate excess reducing power through reduction of sulfate by the formation of hydr	2011	6	17	Biotechnol Prog	Biotechnology progress	Homeostasis; Hydrogen; Models, Theoretical; Monte Carlo Method; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Sulfates	Rizk	Matthew L
20937244	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.10.007	The electron transfer flavoprotein: ubiquinone oxidoreductases.	Electron transfer flavoprotein: ubiqionone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO) is a component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain that together with electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) forms a short pathway that transfers electrons from 11 different mitochondrial flavoprotein dehydrogenases to the ubiquinone pool. The X-ray structure of the pig liver enzyme has been solved in the presence and absence of a bound ubiquinone. This structure reveals ETF-QO to be a monotopic membrane protein with the cofactors, FAD and a [4Fe-4S](+1+2) cluster, organised to suggests that it is the flavin that serves as the immediate reductant of ubiquinone. ETF-QO is very highly conserved in evolution and the recombinant enzyme from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has allowed the mutational analysis of a number of residues that the structure suggested are involved in modulating the reduction potential of the cofactors. These experiments, together with the spectroscopic measurement of the distances between the	2011	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Swine	Watmough	Nicholas J
20937243	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.10.003	Experimental evidence that the membrane-spanning helix of PufX adopts a bent conformation that facilitates dimerisation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC-LH1 complex through N-terminal interactions.	The PufX polypeptide is an integral component of some photosynthetic bacterial reaction center-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complexes. Many aspects of the structure of PufX are unresolved, including the conformation of its long membrane-spanning helix and whether C-terminal processing occurs. In the present report, NMR data recorded on the Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX in a detergent micelle confirmed previous conclusions derived from equivalent data obtained in organic solvent, that the ..-helix of PufX adopts a bent conformation that would allow the entire helix to reside in the membrane interior or at its surface. In support of this, it was found through the use of site-directed mutagenesis that increasing the size of a conserved glycine on the inside of the bend in the helix was not tolerated. Possible consequences of this bent helical structure were explored using a series of N-terminal deletions. The N-terminal sequence ADKTIFNDHLN on the cytoplasmic face of the membrane was f	2011	2	28	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Conserved Sequence; Dimerization; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Micelles; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Ratcliffe	Emma C
20934775	10.1016/j.ejcb.2010.08.007	Histidine is involved in coupling proton uptake to electron transfer in photosynthetic proteins.	In photosynthesis, the central step in transforming light energy into chemical energy is the coupling of light-induced electron transfer to proton uptake and release. Despite intense investigations of different photosynthetic protein complexes, including the photosystem II (PS II) in plants and the reaction center (RC) in bacteria, the molecular details of this fundamental process remain incompletely understood. In the RC of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides, fast formation of the charge separated state, P(+)Q(A)(-), is followed by a slower electron transfer from the primary acceptor, Q(A), to the secondary acceptor, Q(B), and the uptake of a proton from the cytoplasm. The proton transfer to Q(B) takes place via a protonated water chain. Mutation of the amino acid AspL210 to Asn (L210DN mutant) near the entry of the proton pathway can disturb this water chain and consequently slow down proton uptake. Time-resolved step-scan Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) measurements revealed an interme	2011	2	28	Eur J Cell Biol	European journal of cell biology	Electron Transport; Histidine; Photosynthesis; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Onidas	Delphine
20933495	10.1016/j.abb.2010.09.029	Opposing structural changes in two symmetrical polypeptides bring about opposing changes to the thermal stability of a complex integral membrane protein.	The relationship between membrane protein structure and thermal stability has been examined in the reaction centre from the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a complex membrane protein comprising three polypeptide chains and 10 cofactors. The core of this protein exhibits an approximate twofold symmetry, the cofactors being held in two membrane-spanning branches by two polypeptides, termed L and M, that have very similar folds. In assays of the thermal stability of wild-type and mutant reaction centres embedded in the native bilayer membrane, replacement of a Phe at position 197 of the M polypeptide by His produced an increase in stability, whereas an opposing replacement of His by Phe at the symmetrical position 168 of the L-polypeptide produced a decrease in stability. In light of the known X-ray crystal structures of wild-type and mutant variants of this protein, and further mutagenesis, it is concluded that these stability changes result from the introduction or removal, respectiv	2011	2	8	Arch Biochem Biophys	Archives of biochemistry and biophysics	Coenzymes; Enzyme Stability; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Peptides; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protein Engineering; Protein Unfolding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Holden-Dye	Katherine
20889747	10.1128/JB.00655-10	The flagellar protein FliL is essential for swimming in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this work we characterize the function of the flagellar protein FliL in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Our results show that FliL is essential for motility in this bacterium and that in its absence flagellar rotation is highly impaired. A green fluorescent protein (GFP)-FliL fusion forms polar and lateral fluorescent foci that show different spatial dynamics. The presence of these foci is dependent on the expression of the flagellar genes controlled by the master regulator FleQ, suggesting that additional components of the flagellar regulon are required for the proper localization of GFP-FliL. Eight independent pseudorevertants were isolated from the fliL mutant strain. In each of these strains a single nucleotide change in motB was identified. The eight mutations affected only three residues located on the periplasmic side of MotB. Swimming of the suppressor mutants was not affected by the presence of the wild-type fliL allele. Pulldown and yeast two-hybrid assays showed that that the pe	2010	12	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Locomotion; Membrane Proteins; Mutation, Missense; Protein Binding; Protein Interaction Mapping; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Suppression, Genetic; Two-Hybrid System Techniques	Suaste-Olmos	Fernando
20884205	10.1016/j.biortech.2010.09.015	Effects of light/dark cycle, mixing pattern and partial pressure of H2 on biohydrogen production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides ZX-5.	The effects of light/dark cycle, mixing pattern and partial pressure of H2 on the growth and hydrogen production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides ZX-5 were investigated. The results from light/dark cycle culture showed that little or no hydrogen production was observed during the dark periods, and the hydrogen production immediately recovered once illumination was resumed. Also, it was found that the optimum condition of shaking velocity was 120 rpm for hydrogen photo-fermentation. Meanwhile, shaking during H2 production phase (i.e., cell growth stationary phase) of photo-fermentation played a crucial role on effectively enhancing the phototrophic hydrogen production, rather than that during cell exponential growth phase. The other factor evaluated was hydrogen partial pressure in the culture system. The substrate conversion efficiency increased from 86.07% to 95.56% along with the decrease of the total pressure in the photobioreactor from 1.082..10(5) to 0.944..10(5) Pa, which indicated tha	2011	4	21	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biofuels; Biotechnology; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Partial Pressure; Photoperiod; Phototrophic Processes; Rheology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Li	Xu
20882276	10.1007/s00253-010-2873-z	Biotechnological potential of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway.	The ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway is central to the carbon metabolism of many ..-proteobacteria, like Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Methylobacterium extorquens as well as actinomycetes, like Streptomyces spp. Its function is to convert acetyl-CoA, a central carbon intermediate, to other precursor metabolites for cell carbon biosynthesis. In contrast to the glyoxylate cycle--another widely distributed acetyl-CoA assimilation strategy--the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway contains many unique CoA-ester intermediates, such as (2R)- and (2S)-ethylmalonyl-CoA, (2S)-methylsuccinyl-CoA, mesaconyl-(C1)-CoA, and (2R, 3S)-methylmalyl-CoA. With this come novel catalysts that interconvert these compounds. Among these unique enzymes is a novel carboxylase that reductively carboxylates crotonyl-CoA, crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase, and (3S)-malyl-CoA thioesterase. The latter represents the first example of a non-Claisen condensation enzyme of the malate synthase superfamily and defines a new class of thioestera	2011	4	4	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Acyl Coenzyme A; Bacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Biosynthetic Pathways; Carbon; Industrial Microbiology	Alber	Birgit E
20852980	10.1007/s00284-010-9609-2	Aniline-induced tryptophan production and identification of indole derivatives from three purple bacteria.	Growth on aniline by three purple non-sulfur bacteria (Rhodospirillum..rubrum ATCC 11170, Rhodobacter..sphaeroides DSM 158, and Rubrivivax..benzoatiliticus JA2) as nitrogen, or carbon source could not be demonstrated. However in its presence, production of indole derivatives was observed with all the strains tested. At least 14 chromatographically (HPLC) distinct peaks were observed at the absorption maxima of 275-280..nm from aniline induced cultures. Five major indoles were identified based on HPLC and LC-MS/MS analysis. While tryptophan was the major common metabolite for all the three aniline induced cultures, production of indole-3-acetic acid was observed with Rvi...benzoatilyticus JA2 alone, while indole-3-aldehyde was identified from Rvi...benzoatilyticus JA2 and Rba...sphaeroides DSM 158. Indole-3-ethanol was identified only from Rsp...rubrum ATCC 1170 and anthranilic acid was identified from Rba...sphaeroides DSM 158.	2011	1	12	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Aniline Compounds; Betaproteobacteria; Biodegradation, Environmental; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Chromatography, Liquid; Indoleacetic Acids; Indoles; Industrial Waste; Mass Spectrometry; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Tandem Mass Spectrometry; Tryptophan; ortho-Aminobenzoates	Mujahid	Md
20851979	10.1128/AEM.01606-10	Novel activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides spheroidene monooxygenase CrtA expressed in Escherichia coli.	The spheroidene monooxygenase CrtA of Rhodobacter sphaeroides introduces a keto group and/or hydroxy group at the ends of nonnative substrates in Escherichia coli, resulting in the production of novel oxocarotenoids. The heme-containing CrtA is not a P450 enzyme but a new type of oxygenase.	2011	2	3	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Carotenoids; Chromatography, Thin Layer; Crystallography, X-Ray; Escherichia coli; Mixed Function Oxygenases; Organisms, Genetically Modified; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Pyung Cheon
20839819	10.1021/jp105801q	Bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers in trehalose glasses: coupling between protein conformational dynamics and electron-transfer kinetics as studied by laser-flash and high-field EPR spectroscopies.	The coupling between electron transfer (ET) and the conformational dynamics of the cofactor...protein complex in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in water/glycerol solutions or embedded in dehydrated poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) films or trehalose glasses is reported. Matrix effects were studied by time-resolved 95 GHz high-field electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy at room (290 K) and low (150 K) temperature. ET from the photoreduced quinone acceptor (QA......) to the photo-oxidized donor (P865...+) is strongly matrix-dependent at room temperature: In the trehalose glasses, the recombination kinetics of P865...+QA......, probed by EPR and optical spectroscopies, is faster and broadly distributed as compared to that of RCs in solution, reflecting the inhibition of the RC relaxation from the dark- to the light-adapted conformational substate and the hindrance of substate interconversion. Similarly accelerated kinetics was observed also in PVA	2011	1	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Lasers; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose	Savitsky	Anton
20823222	10.1073/pnas.1000771107	Identification of a gene essential for protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase activity in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803.	Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (Protox) catalyses the oxidation of protoporphyrinogen IX to protoporphyrin IX during the synthesis of tetrapyrrole molecules. Protox is encoded by the hemY gene in eukaryotes and by the hemG gene in many ..-proteobacteria, including Escherichia coli. It has been suggested that other bacteria possess a yet unidentified type of Protox. To identify a unique bacterial gene encoding Protox, we first introduced the Arabidopsis hemY gene into the genome of the cyanobacterium, Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. We subsequently mutagenized the cells by transposon tagging and screened the tagged lines for mutants that were sensitive to acifluorfen, which is a specific inhibitor of the hemY-type Protox. Several cell lines containing the tagged slr1790 locus exhibited acifluorfen sensitivity. The slr1790 gene encodes a putative membrane-spanning protein that is distantly related to the M subunit of NADH dehydrogenase complex I. We attempted to disrupt this gene in the wild-type	2010	11	2	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Arabidopsis; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; DNA, Bacterial; Enzyme Inhibitors; Gene Targeting; Genes, Bacterial; Genes, Plant; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Nitrobenzoates; Phylogeny; Protoporphyrinogen Oxidase; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis; Transformation, Genetic	Kato	Kazushige
20808885	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1000896	Modeling chemotaxis reveals the role of reversed phosphotransfer and a bi-functional kinase-phosphatase.	Understanding how multiple signals are integrated in living cells to produce a balanced response is a major challenge in biology. Two-component signal transduction pathways, such as bacterial chemotaxis, comprise histidine protein kinases (HPKs) and response regulators (RRs). These are used to sense and respond to changes in the environment. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a complex chemosensory network with two signaling clusters, each containing a HPK, CheA. Here we demonstrate, using a mathematical model, how the outputs of the two signaling clusters may be integrated. We use our mathematical model supported by experimental data to predict that: (1) the main RR controlling flagellar rotation, CheY(6), aided by its specific phosphatase, the bifunctional kinase CheA(3), acts as a phosphate sink for the other RRs; and (2) a phosphorelay pathway involving CheB(2) connects the cytoplasmic cluster kinase CheA(3) with the polar localised kinase CheA(2), and allows CheA(3)-P to phosphorylate no	2010	12	3	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Histidine Kinase; Membrane Proteins; Models, Biological; Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases; Phosphorylation; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Tindall	Marcus J
20801074	10.1016/j.tplants.2010.07.002	Chlorophyll biosynthesis: spotlight on protochlorophyllide reduction.	Photosynthetic organisms require chlorophyll or bacteriochlorophyll for their light trapping and energy transduction activities. The biosynthetic pathways of chlorophyll and bacteriochlorophyll are similar in most of their early steps, except for the reduction of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide. Whereas angiosperms make use of a light-dependent enzyme, cyanobacteria, algae, bryophytes, pteridophytes and gymnosperms contain an additional, light-independent enzyme dubbed dark-operative Pchlide oxidoreductase (DPOR). Anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria such as Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides rely solely on DPOR. Recent atomic resolution of reductase and catalytic components of DPOR from R. sphaeroides and R. capsulatus, respectively, have revealed their similarity to nitrogenase components. In this review, we discuss the two fundamentally different mechanisms of Pchlide reduction in photosynthetic organisms.	2011	1	18	Trends Plant Sci	Trends in plant science	Bacteria; Chlorophyll; Eukaryota; Photosynthesis; Plants; Protochlorophyllide	Reinbothe	Christiane
20797440	10.1016/j.jsb.2010.08.010	Native architecture of the photosynthetic membrane from Rhodobacter veldkampii.	The photosynthetic membrane in purple bacteria contains several pigment-protein complexes that assure light capture and establishment of the chemiosmotic gradient. The bioenergetic tasks of the photosynthetic membrane require the strong interaction between these various complexes. In the present work, we acquired the first images of the native outer membrane architecture and the supramolecular organization of the photosynthetic apparatus in vesicular chromatophores of Rhodobacter (Rb.) veldkampii. Mixed with LH2 (light-harvesting complex 2) rings, the PufX-containing LH1-RC (light-harvesting complex 1--reaction center) core complexes appear as C-shaped monomers, with random orientations in the photosynthetic membrane. Within the LH1 fence surrounding the RC, a remarkable gap that is probably occupied (or partially occupied) by PufX is visualized. Sequence alignment revealed that one specific region in PufX may be essential for PufX-induced core dimerization. In this region of ten amino	2011	3	29	J Struct Biol	Journal of structural biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter; Sequence Alignment; Species Specificity; Spectrum Analysis	Liu	Lu-Ning
20735025	10.1021/la102869w	Immobilization of porphyrin derivatives with a defined distance and orientation onto a gold electrode using synthetic light-harvesting ..-helix hydrophobic polypeptides.	Molecular assembly of Zn-porphyrin pigments on a gold electrode using synthetic 1..-helix hydrophobic polypeptides which have similar amino acid sequences to the hydrophobic core in the native photosynthetic light-harvesting (LH) 1-.. polypeptide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been achieved. This method is clearly successful in allowing assembly of porphyrins together with LH1 type functional complexes with a defined distance and orientation on the electrode. In this case, the photocurrent direction and the distance of electron transfer of pigments could be controlled by these synthetic LH1 model polypeptides. This method will be useful for the self-assembly of these pigment and protein complexes in order to study the energy transfer and electron transfer reactions between individual pigments in the supramolecular complexes on the electrode, as well as to provide insight into the effect of the distance and orientation of pigments and the effect of the structure of 1..-helix hydrophob	2011	1	4	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Amino Acid Sequence; Cysteine; Electrodes; Electron Transport; Gold; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Metalloporphyrins; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptide Fragments; Photochemical Processes; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ochiai	Tsuyoshi
20709018	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.08.001	The simulation of interquinone charge transfer in a bacterial photoreaction center highlights the central role of a hydrogen-bonded non-heme iron complex.	We consider electron transfer between the quinones Q(A) and Q(B), one of the final steps in the photoinduced charge separation in the photoreaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The system is described by a model with atomic resolution using classical force fields and a carefully parameterized tight-binding Hamiltonian. The rates estimated for direct interquinone charge transfer hopping involving a non-heme iron complex bridging the quinones and superexchange based on the geometry of the photochemically inactive dark state are orders of magnitude smaller than those obtained experimentally. Only if the iron complex is attached to both quinones via hydrogen bonds - as characteristic of the charge transfer active light state - the computed rate for superexchange involving the histidine ligands of the complex will become comparable to the experimental value of k(CT)=10...s......	2011	2	28	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Computer Simulation; DNA, Bacterial; Hydrogen Bonding; Iron; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Burggraf	Fabian
20701325	10.1021/bi100663u	Multiconformation continuum electrostatics analysis of the effects of a buried Asp introduced near heme a in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) reduces O(2) to water via a series of proton-coupled electron transfers, generating a transmembrane electrochemical gradient. Coupling electron and proton transfer requires changing the pK(a) values of buried residues at each stage in the reaction cycle. Heme a is a key cofactor in the CcO electron transfer chain. Mutation of Ser44 to Asp has been reported [Mills, D. A., et al. (2008) Biochemistry 47, 11499-11509], changing the hydrogen bond acceptor from His102, the heme a axial ligand in Rhodobactor sphaeroides CcO. This adds an acidic residue to the CcO interior. The electrochemical behavior of heme a in wild-type and S44D CcO is compared using the continuum electrostatics program MCCE. The introduced, deeply buried Asp remains ionized at physiological pH only when the nearby heme is oxidized. Heme a reduction is now calculated to be strongly coupled to Asp proton binding, while with Ser44, it is weakly coupled to small protonation shifts at multiple sites	2010	10	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Asparagine; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics; Water	Zhang	Jun
20675482	10.1128/JB.00736-10	The PpaA/AerR regulators of photosynthesis gene expression from anoxygenic phototrophic proteobacteria contain heme-binding SCHIC domains.	The SCHIC domain of the B12-binding domain family present in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides AppA protein binds heme and senses oxygen. Here we show that the predicted SCHIC domain PpaA/AerR regulators also bind heme and respond to oxygen in vitro, despite their low sequence identity with AppA.	2010	10	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Heme; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Moskvin	Oleg V
20673206	10.1134/s0006297910070047	Primary electron transfer in reaction centers of YM210L and YM210L/HL168L mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The role of tyrosine M210 in charge separation and stabilization of separated charges was studied by analyzing of the femtosecond oscillations in the kinetics of decay of stimulated emission from P* and of a population of the primary charge separated state P(+)B(A)(-) in YM210L and YM210L/HL168L mutant reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in comparison with those in native Rba. sphaeroides RCs. In the mutant RCs, TyrM210 was replaced by Leu. The HL168L mutation placed the redox potential of the P(+)/P pair 123 mV below that of native RCs, thus creating a theoretical possibility of P(+)B(A)(-) stabilization. Kinetics of P* decay at 940 nm of both mutants show a significant slowing of the primary charge separation reaction in comparison with native RCs. Distinct damped oscillations in these kinetics with main frequency bands in the range of 90-150 cm(-1) reflect mostly nuclear motions inside the dimer P. Formation of a very small absorption band of B(A)(-) at 1020 nm is regi	2010	11	4	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation, Missense; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yakovlev	A G
20672818	10.1021/ja104134e	Hydrogen bonds between nitrogen donors and the semiquinone in the Q(B) site of bacterial reaction centers.	Photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have identical ubiquinone-10 molecules functioning as primary (Q(A)) and secondary (Q(B)) electron acceptors. X-band 2D pulsed EPR spectroscopy, called HYSCORE, was applied to study the interaction of the Q(B) site semiquinone with nitrogens from the local protein environment in natural and (15)N uniformly labeled reactions centers. (14)N and (15)N HYSCORE spectra of the Q(B) semiquinone show the interaction with two nitrogens carrying transferred unpaired spin density. Quadrupole coupling constants estimated from (14)N HYSCORE spectra indicate them to be a protonated nitrogen of an imidazole residue and amide nitrogen of a peptide group. (15)N HYSCORE spectra allowed estimation of the isotropic and anisotropic couplings with these nitrogens. From these data, we calculated the unpaired spin density transferred onto 2s and 2p orbitals of nitrogen and analyzed the contribution of different factors to the anisotropic hyperfine t	2010	12	2	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Martin	Erik
20661434	10.1371/journal.pgen.1001027	Reconstruction of the core and extended regulons of global transcription factors.	The processes underlying the evolution of regulatory networks are unclear. To address this question, we used a comparative genomics approach that takes advantage of the large number of sequenced bacterial genomes to predict conserved and variable members of transcriptional regulatory networks across phylogenetically related organisms. Specifically, we developed a computational method to predict the conserved regulons of transcription factors across alpha-proteobacteria. We focused on the CRP/FNR super-family of transcription factors because it contains several well-characterized members, such as FNR, FixK, and DNR. While FNR, FixK, and DNR are each proposed to regulate different aspects of anaerobic metabolism, they are predicted to recognize very similar DNA target sequences, and they occur in various combinations among individual alpha-proteobacterial species. In this study, the composition of the respective FNR, FixK, or DNR conserved regulons across 87 alpha-proteobacterial species	2010	11	22	PLoS Genet	PLoS genetics	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Regulatory Networks; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; Models, Biological; Phylogeny; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcription Factors	Dufour	Yann S
20658137	10.1007/s00284-010-9723-1	Proton motive force in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under anaerobic conditions in the dark.	In order to examine the mediatory role of proton motive force (...p) or proton ATPase in H... production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, ...p was determined under anaerobic conditions in the dark, and the ATPase activity has been studied in R. sphaeroides strain A-10, isolated from Arzni mineral springs in Armenia. Membrane potential (.....) was measured from the distribution of tetraphenylphosphonium cation; pH gradient (...pH) was the difference between the external and cytoplasmic pH values, and the latter was measured by 9-aminoacridine (9-AA) fluorescence changes. At pH 7.5, ..... was of -94 mV and the reversed ...pH was +30 mV, resulting in ...p of -64 mV. The addition of N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCD), the F...F...-ATPase inhibitor, was not affect ...... It was shown that ..... varies nearly linearly with ..pH, ..... increased from -57.1 mV at pH 6.0 to -103.8 mV at pH 8.0; it was compensated at high external pH by a reversed ...pH, resulting in a low ...p under anaerobic-dark	2011	4	20	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Adenosine Triphosphatases; Anaerobiosis; Armenia; Cell Membrane; Darkness; Hydrogen; Membrane Potentials; Proton Pumps; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water Microbiology	Hakobyan	Lilit
20655834	10.1016/j.bpj.2010.04.013	Photosynthetic vesicle architecture and constraints on efficient energy harvesting.	Photosynthetic chromatophore vesicles found in some purple bacteria constitute one of the simplest light-harvesting systems in nature. The overall architecture of chromatophore vesicles and the structural integration of vesicle function remain poorly understood despite structural information being available on individual constituent proteins. An all-atom structural model for an entire chromatophore vesicle is presented, which improves upon earlier models by taking into account the stoichiometry of core and antenna complexes determined by the absorption spectrum of intact vesicles in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, as well as the well-established curvature-inducing properties of the dimeric core complex. The absorption spectrum of low-light-adapted vesicles is shown to correspond to a light-harvesting-complex 2 to reaction center ratio of 3:1. A structural model for a vesicle consistent with this stoichiometry is developed and used in the computation of excitonic properties. Considered also is	2010	11	1	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Absorption; Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Chromatophores; Energy Metabolism; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Sener	Melih
20655292	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.07.011	Excitation transfer connectivity in different purple bacteria: a theoretical and experimental study.	Photosynthetic membranes accommodate densely packed light-harvesting complexes which absorb light and convey excitation to the reaction center (RC). The relationship between the fluorescence yield (phi) and the fraction (x) of closed RCs is informative about the probability for an excitation reaching a closed RC to be redirected to another RC. In this work, we have examined in this respect membranes from various bacteria and searched for a correlation with the arrangement of the light-harvesting complexes as known from atomic force or electron microscopies. A first part of the paper is devoted to a theoretical study analyzing the phi(x) relationship in various models: monomeric or dimeric RC-LH1 core complexes, with or without the peripheral LH2 complexes. We show that the simple "homogeneous" kinetic treatment used here agrees well with more detailed master equation calculations. We also discuss the agreement between information derived from the present technique and from singlet anni	2010	11	16	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Cell Membrane; Diffusion; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Theoretical; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Quinones	de Rivoyre	Matthieu
20646993	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.07.007	Dimerisation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC-LH1 photosynthetic complex is not facilitated by a GxxxG motif in the PufX polypeptide.	In purple photosynthetic bacteria the initial steps of light energy transduction take place in an RC-LH1 complex formed by the photochemical reaction centre (RC) and the LH1 light harvesting pigment-protein. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the RC-LH1 complex assembles in a dimeric form in which two RCs are surrounded by an S-shaped LH1 antenna. There is currently debate over the detailed architecture of this dimeric RC-LH1 complex, with particular emphasis on the location and precise function of a minor polypeptide component termed PufX. It has been hypothesised that the membrane-spanning helical region of PufX contains a GxxxG dimerisation motif that facilitates the formation of a dimer of PufX at the interface of the RC-LH1 dimer, and more specifically that the formation of this PufX dimer seeds assembly of the remaining RC-LH1 dimer (J. Busselez et al., 2007). In the present work this hypothesis was tested by site directed mutagenesis of the glycine residues proposed to form the GxxxG m	2010	11	16	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Motifs; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Crouch	Lucy I
20618143	10.1134/s0006297910040176	A powerful hybrid puc operon promoter tightly regulated by both IPTG and low oxygen level.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been intensively studied and provides an excellent model for studying both photosynthesis and membrane development. The photosynthetic apparatus (LH2 and LH1-RC complexes) can be synthesized in large scale and integrated into the intracytoplasmic membrane system under specific conditions, which thus provides us insight to utilize the puc or(and) puf operon to heterologously express recombinant proteins in the intracytoplasmic membrane using Rb. sphaeroides as a novel expression system. However, basal level of expression of puc and puf promoter is uncontrolled. We report the construction of LH2 polypeptide expression vector that contains a reengineered lacI(q)-puc promoter-lac operator hybrid promoter, which allows the puc operon to be regulated by both IPTG and low oxygen level. Synthesis of LH2 complexes was completely repressed in the absence of isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside (IPTG), and the degree of induction was controlled by varying the concentration	2010	10	25	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Isopropyl Thiogalactoside; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Operon; Oxygen; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hu	Zongli
20618129	10.1134/s0006297910040036	Femtosecond stage of electron transfer in reaction centers of the triple mutant SL178K/GM203D/LM214H of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Coherent processes in an initial phase of charge transfer in reaction centers (RCs) of the triple mutant S(L178)K/G(M203)D/L(M214)H of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated by difference (light - dark) absorption spectroscopy with 18 fsec time resolution. Electron transfer in the B cofactor branch is activated in this mutant, while the A-branch electron transfer is slowed in comparison with native RCs of Rba. sphaeroides. A bulk of absorption difference spectra was analyzed in the 940-1060 nm range (stimulated emission of excited bacteriochlorophyll dimer P* and absorption of bacteriochlorophyll anions B(A)(-) and beta(-), where beta is a bacteriochlorophyll substituting the native bacteriopheophytin H(A)) and in the 735-775 nm range (bleaching of the absorption band of the bacteriopheophytin H(B) in the B-branch) in the -0.1 to 4 psec range of delays with respect to the moment of photoexcitation of P at 870 nm. Spectra were measured at 293 and 90 K. The kinetics of P* stimulated e	2010	10	25	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Yakovlev	A G
20607696	10.1002/prot.22779	The measured and calculated affinity of methyl- and methoxy-substituted benzoquinones for the Q(A) site of bacterial reaction centers.	Quinones play important roles in mitochondrial and photosynthetic energy conversion acting as intramembrane, mobile electron, and proton carriers between catalytic sites in various electron transfer proteins. They display different affinity, selectivity, functionality, and exchange dynamics in different binding sites. The computational analysis of quinone binding sheds light on the requirements for quinone affinity and specificity. The affinities of 10 oxidized, neutral benzoquinones were measured for the high affinity Q(A) site in the detergent-solubilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacterial photosynthetic reaction center. Multiconformation Continuum Electrostatics was then used to calculate their relative binding free energies by grand canonical Monte Carlo sampling with a rigid protein backbone, flexible ligand, and side chain positions and protonation states. Van der Waals and torsion energies, Poisson-Boltzmann continuum electrostatics, and accessible surface area-dependent ligand-s	2010	11	15	Proteins	Proteins	Animals; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Databases, Factual; Hydrogen Bonding; Ligands; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software; Static Electricity	Zheng	Zhong
20595263	10.1099/mic.0.038703-0	Mechanisms of oxygen inhibition of nirK expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.3, when lacking the cbb(3) oxidase, is unable to transition from aerobic respiration to denitrification using cellular respiration as a means of reducing oxygen levels. This is due to an inability to express nirK, the gene encoding nitrite reductase. Under certain photosynthetic conditions this strain can transition from aerobic to nitrate respiration, demonstrating that nirK expression can occur in the absence of a functional cbb(3) oxidase. If oxygen levels are reduced under non-photosynthetic conditions using low-oxygen gas mixes, nitrite reductase activity is detected at wild-type levels in the strain lacking the oxidase. In addition, co-culture experiments show that incubation of the cbb(3) deficient strain 2.4.3 with R. sphaeroides 2.4.1, which is nirK deficient but has the high-affinity cbb(3) oxidase, restores denitrification in sealed-vessel experiments. Taken together these results indicate that high end-point O(2) levels are the reason why the strai	2010	12	22	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Denitrification; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Mutation; Nitrite Reductases; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hartsock	Angela
20589635	10.1002/prot.22783	Similarity of cytochrome c oxidases in different organisms.	Most of biological oxygen reduction is catalyzed by the heme-copper oxygen reductases. These enzymes are redox-driven proton pumps that take part in generating the proton gradient in both prokaryotes and mitochondria that drives synthesis of ATP. The enzymes have been divided into three evolutionarily-related groups: the A-, B-, and C-families. Recent comparative studies suggest that all oxygen reductases perform the same chemistry for oxygen reduction and comprise the same essential elements of the proton pumping mechanism, such as the proton loading and kinetic gating sites, which, however, appear to be different in different families. All species of the A-family, however, demonstrate remarkable similarity of the central processing unit of the enzyme, as revealed by their recent crystal structures. Here we demonstrate that cytochrome c oxidases (CcO) of such diverse organisms as a mammal (bovine heart mitochondrial CcO), photosynthetic bacteria (Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcO), and soil	2010	11	15	Proteins	Proteins	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Paracoccus denitrificans; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Popovic	D M
20587053	10.1186/1471-2091-11-24	Occurrence and sequence of Sphaeroides Heme Protein and diheme cytochrome C in purple photosynthetic bacteria in the family Rhodobacteraceae.	Sphaeroides Heme Protein (SHP) was discovered in the purple photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and is the only known c-type heme protein that binds oxygen. Although initially not believed to be widespread among the photosynthetic bacteria, the gene has now been found in more than 40 species of proteobacteria and generally appears to be regulated. Rb. sphaeroides is exceptional in not having regulatory genes associated with the operon. We have thus analyzed additional purple bacteria for the SHP gene and examined the genetic context to obtain new insights into the operon, its distribution, and possible function. We found SHP in 9 out of 10 strains of Rb. sphaeroides and in 5 out of 10 purple photosynthetic bacterial species in the family Rhodobacteraceae. We found a remarkable similarity within the family including the lack of regulatory genes. Within the proteobacteria as a whole, SHP is part of a 3-6 gene operon that includes a membrane-spanning diheme cytochrome b and	2010	9	16	BMC Biochem	BMC biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Heme-Binding Proteins; Hemeproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Operon; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Meyer	Terry E
20574750	10.1007/s11120-010-9569-1	Absorbance changes accompanying the fast fluorescence induction in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The authors present a study of the fluorescence and absorbance transients occurring in whole cells of purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides on the millisecond timescale under pulsed actinic illumination. The fluorescence induction curve is interpreted in terms of combination of effects of redox changes in the reaction center and the membrane potential. The results of this study support the view that the membrane potential act predominantly to increase the fluorescence yield. Advantages of the pulsed actinic illumination for study of the operation of the electron transport chain in vivo are discussed.	2011	3	17	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Absorption; Carotenoids; Kinetics; Light; Membrane Potentials; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	B..na	David
20541505	10.1016/j.str.2010.03.001	Three-dimensional structure of TspO by electron cryomicroscopy of helical crystals.	The 18 kDa TSPO protein is a polytopic mitochondrial outer membrane protein involved in a wide range of physiological functions and pathologies, including neurodegeneration and cancer. The pharmacology of TSPO has been extensively studied, but little is known about its biochemistry, oligomeric state, and structure. We have expressed, purified, and characterized a homologous protein, TspO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and reconstituted it as helical crystals. Using electron cryomicroscopy and single-particle helical reconstruction, we have determined a three-dimensional structure of TspO at 10 A resolution. The structure suggests that monomeric TspO comprises five transmembrane alpha helices that form a homodimer, which is consistent with the dimeric state observed in detergent solution. Furthermore, the arrangement of transmembrane domains of individual TspO subunits indicates a possibility of two substrate translocation pathways per dimer. The structure provides the first insight into	2010	9	20	Structure	Structure (London, England : 1993)	Cryoelectron Microscopy; Detergents; Membrane Proteins; Mitochondrial Membranes; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Korkhov	Vladimir M
20532746	10.1007/978-1-4419-1528-3_15	Integrative control of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and sulfur metabolism: the central role of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle.	Nonsulfur purple (NSP) photosynthetic bacteria use the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) reductive pentose phosphate pathway for the reduction of CO(2) via ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase-oxygenase (RubisCO), as a means to build cell mass during chemoautotrophic or photoautotrophic conditions. In addition, the CBB pathway plays an important role in maintaining redox balance during photoheterotrophic growth conditions. In this communication we describe protein-protein interactions between two transcriptional regulators CbbR and RegA and the possible role of the CbbX protein in regulating the CBB pathway in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In Rhodopseudomonas palustris, the CbbR and the CbbRRS system (a three-protein, two-component regulatory system) regulate the CBB pathway. Moreover, derepression of the nitrogenase complex, and the production of hydrogen gas, appears to be a common mechanism to balance the redox potential in RubisCO-compromised strains of NSP photosynthetic bacteria.	2010	8	12	Adv Exp Med Biol	Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Carbon; Hydrogen; Nitrogen; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfur	Laguna	Rick
20532741	10.1007/978-1-4419-1528-3_10	Proteomic analysis of the developing intracytoplasmic membrane in Rhodobacter sphaeroides during adaptation to low light intensity.	Although the primary photochemical events in the facultative photoheterotrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides are now well understood, comparatively little is known about how their photosynthetic apparatus is assembled. Here we present a proteomic analysis of the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) assembly process during adaptation to lowered light intensity, in which the size of the photosynthetic units is greatly expanded by addition of the light-harvesting 2 (LH2) peripheral antenna complex. When the isolated ICM-derived chromatophore vesicles were subjected to clear native gel electrophoresis (CNE), four pigmented bands appeared; the top and bottom bands contained the reaction center - light-harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complex and LH2 peripheral antenna, respectively, while the two bands of intermediate migration contained associations of the LH2 and core complexes. Proteomic analysis revealed a large array of other proteins associated with the CNE gel bands - in particular,	2010	8	12	Adv Exp Med Biol	Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Light; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Woronowicz	Kamil
20525091	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2010.07095.x	Specificity of localization and phosphotransfer in the CheA proteins of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Specificity of protein-protein interactions plays a vital role in signal transduction. The chemosensory pathway of Rhodobacter sphaeroides comprises multiple homologues of chemotaxis proteins characterized in organisms such as Escherichia coli. Three CheA homologues are essential for chemotaxis in R. sphaeroides under laboratory conditions. These CheAs are differentially localized to two chemosensory clusters, one at the cell pole and one in the cytoplasm. The polar CheA, CheA(2), has the same domain structure as E. coli CheA and can phosphorylate all R. sphaeroides chemotaxis response regulators. CheA(3) and CheA(4) independently localize to the cytoplasmic cluster; each protein has a subset of the CheA domains, with CheA(3) phosphorylating CheA(4) together making a functional CheA protein. Interestingly, CheA(3)-P can only phosphorylate two response regulators, CheY(6) and CheB(2). R. sphaeroides CheAs exhibit two interesting differences in specificity: (i) the response regulators th	2010	9	28	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; DNA Shuffling; Histidine Kinase; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Phosphorylation; Protein Kinases; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Substrate Specificity	Scott	Kathryn A
20524628	10.1021/bi1003876	Mutagenic analysis of Cox11 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: insights into the assembly of Cu(B) of cytochrome c oxidase.	The Cu(I) chaperone Cox11 is required for the insertion of Cu(B) into cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) of mitochondria and many bacteria, including Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Exploration of the copper binding stoichiometry of R. sphaeroides Cox11 led to the finding that an apparent tetramer of both mitochondrial and bacterial Cox11 binds more copper than the sum of the dimers, providing another example of the flexibility of copper binding by Cu(I)-S clusters. Site-directed mutagenesis has been used to identify components of Cox11 that are not required for copper binding but are absolutely required for the assembly of Cu(B), including conserved Cys-35 and Lys-123. In contrast to earlier proposals, Cys-35 is not required for dimerization of Cox11 or for copper binding. These findings, and the location of Cys-35 at the C-terminus of the predicted transmembrane helix and thereby close to the surface of the membrane, allow a proposal that Cys-35 is involved in the transfer of copper from the Cu(I) 	2010	7	20	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Copper; Cysteine; Dimerization; Electron Transport Complex IV; Ligands; Molecular Chaperones; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutagens; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Thompson	Audie K
20497366	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2010.00749.x	In vivo effects on photosynthesis gene expression of base pair exchanges in the gene encoding the light-responsive BLUF domain of AppA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides protein AppA has the unique quality of sensing and transmitting light and redox signals. By acting as antirepressor to the PpsR protein, it acts as a major regulator in photosynthesis gene expression. In this study, we show that by introducing amino acid exchanges into the AppA protein, the in vivo activity as an antirepressor can be greatly altered. The tryptophan 104 to phenylalanine (W104F) base exchange greatly diminished blue-light sensitivity of the BLUF domain. From the obtained in vivo data, the difference in thermal recovery rate of the signaling state of the BLUF domain between the wild type and mutated protein was calculated, predicting an about 10-fold faster recovery in the mutant, which is consistent with in vitro data. Introduction of a tyrosine 21 to phenylalanine (Y21F) or to cysteine (Y21C) mutation led to a complete loss of AppA antirepressor activity, while additionally leading to an increase of photosynthesis gene expression after illumi	2011	1	13	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Pairing; Escherichia coli; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Metz	Sebastian
20473961	10.1002/jobm.200900340	Assessment of an internal reference gene in Rhodobacter sphaeroides grown under cobalt exposure.	Aim of this study is the identification of an appropriate internal reference gene to quantify gene transcripts isolated from Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides cells grown in presence of high concentrations of cobalt ions. RNA was isolated using a commercial kit protocol ad-hoc modified. Several primer pairs were used to perform reverse transcription PCR and real-time PCR to assess the suitable internal reference gene whose expression is not affected by cobalt ions, identified with the gene rsp0154.This finding can be of definite help in the investigation of the response to heavy metals of the chosen strain, a potential candidate for environmental applications.	2010	9	20	J Basic Microbiol	Journal of basic microbiology	Cobalt; Gene Expression Profiling; Genes, Bacterial; Reference Standards; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Losurdo	Luca
20473353	10.1007/s10404-009-0512-8	A Plug-Based Microfluidic System for Dispensing Lipidic Cubic Phase (LCP) Material Validated by Crystallizing Membrane Proteins in Lipidic Mesophases.	This paper presents a plug-based microfluidic system to dispense nanoliter-volume plugs of Lipidic Cubic Phase (LCP) material and subsequently merge the LCP plugs with aqueous plugs. This system was validated by crystallizing membrane proteins in lipidic mesophases, including LCP. This system allows for accurate dispensing of LCP material in nanoliter volumes, prevents inadvertent phase transitions that may occur due to dehydration by enclosing LCP in plugs, and is compatible with the traditional method of forming LCP material using a membrane protein sample, as shown by the successful crystallization of bacteriorhodopsin from Halobacterium salinarum. Conditions for the formation of LCP plugs were characterized and presented in a phase diagram. This system was also implemented using two different methods of introducing the membrane protein: 1) the traditional method of generating the LCP material using a membrane protein sample and 2) Post LCP-formation Incorporation (PLI), which invol	2021	10	20	Microfluid Nanofluidics	Microfluidics and nanofluidics	NA	Li	Liang
20463993	10.1039/b926977k	Myoglobin embedded in saccharide amorphous matrices: water-dependent domains evidenced by small angle X-ray scattering.	We report Small Angle X-ray Scattering (SAXS) measurements performed on samples of carboxy-myoglobin (MbCO) embedded in low-water trehalose glasses. Results showed that, in such samples, "low-protein" trehalose-water domains are present, surrounded by a protein-trehalose-water background; such finding is supported by Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) measurements. These domains, which do not appear in the absence of the protein and in analogous sucrose systems, preferentially incorporate the incoming water at the onset of rehydration, and disappear following large hydration. This observation suggests that, in organisms under anhydrobiosis, analogous domains could play a buffering role against the daily variations of the atmospheric moisture. The reported results are rationalized by assuming sizably different protein-matrix coupling in trehalose with respect to sucrose, analogous to the one suggested for the photosynthetic reaction centre from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (F. Francia et al., J. A	2010	9	14	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Myoglobin; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Scattering, Small Angle; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Sucrose; Trehalose; Water	Longo	Alessandro
20448037	10.1074/jbc.M110.128082	Binding of imidazole to the heme of cytochrome c1 and inhibition of the bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: II. Kinetics and mechanism of binding.	The kinetics of imidazole (Im) and N-methylimidazole (MeIm) binding to oxidized cytochrome (cyt) c(1) of detergent-solubilized bc(1) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides are described. The rate of formation of the cyt c(1)-Im complex exhibited three separated regions of dependence on the concentration of imidazole: (i) below 8 mM Im, the rate increased with concentration in a parabolic manner; (ii) above 20 mM, the rate leveled off, indicating a rate-limiting conformational step with lifetime approximately 1 s; and (iii) at Im concentrations above 100 mM, the rate substantially increased again, also parabolically. In contrast, binding of MeIm followed a simple hyperbolic concentration dependence. The temperature dependences of the binding and release kinetics of Im and MeIm were also measured and revealed very large activation parameters for all reactions. The complex concentration dependence of the Im binding rate is not consistent with the popular model for soluble c-type cytochromes	2010	8	6	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport Complex III; Enzyme Activation; Heme; Imidazoles; Kinetics; Ligands; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Kokhan	Oleksandr
20448035	10.1074/jbc.M110.128058	Binding of imidazole to the heme of cytochrome c1 and inhibition of the bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: I. Equilibrium and modeling studies.	We have used imidazole (Im) and N-methylimidazole (MeIm) as probes of the heme-binding cavity of membrane-bound cytochrome (cyt) c(1) in detergent-solubilized bc(1) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Imidazole binding to cyt c(1) substantially lowers the midpoint potential of the heme and fully inhibits bc(1) complex activity. Temperature dependences showed that binding of Im (K(d) approximately 330 microM, 25 degrees C, pH 8) is enthalpically driven (DeltaH(0) = -56 kJ/mol, DeltaS(0) = -121 J/mol/K), whereas binding of MeIm is 30 times weaker (K(d) approximately 9.3 mM) and is entropically driven (DeltaH(0) = 47 kJ/mol, DeltaS(0)(o) = 197 J/mol/K). The large enthalpic and entropic contributions suggest significant structural and solvation changes in cyt c(1) triggered by ligand binding. Comparison of these results with those obtained previously for soluble cyts c and c(2) suggested that Im binding to cyt c(1) is assisted by formation of hydrogen bonds within the heme cleft. This wa	2010	8	6	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport Complex III; Heme; Imidazoles; Kinetics; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Kokhan	Oleksandr
20444085	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2010.07153.x	Membrane invagination in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is initiated at curved regions of the cytoplasmic membrane, then forms both budded and fully detached spherical vesicles.	The purple phototrophic bacteria synthesize an extensive system of intracytoplasmic membranes (ICM) in order to increase the surface area for absorbing and utilizing solar energy. Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells contain curved membrane invaginations. In order to study the biogenesis of ICM in this bacterium mature (ICM) and precursor (upper pigmented band - UPB) membranes were purified and compared at the single membrane level using electron, atomic force and fluorescence microscopy, revealing fundamental differences in their morphology, protein organization and function. Cryo-electron tomography demonstrates the complexity of the ICM of Rba. sphaeroides. Some ICM vesicles have no connection with other structures, others are found nearer to the cytoplasmic membrane (CM), often forming interconnected structures that retain a connection to the CM, and possibly having access to the periplasmic space. Near-spherical single invaginations are also observed, still attached to the CM by a 'neck'	2010	9	20	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tucker	Jaimey D
20441187	10.1021/bi100344x	Decoupling mutations in the D-channel of the aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides suggest that a continuous hydrogen-bonded chain of waters is essential for proton pumping.	The aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides utilizes two proton-input channels to provide all the protons for chemistry (water formation) and proton pumping. The D-channel is responsible for the uptake of all pumped protons, four protons per O(2). Several substitutions of either N139 or N207, near the entrance of the D-channel, were previously reported to decouple the proton pump from oxidase activity. In this work, the characteristics of additional mutations in this region of the protein (N139, N207, N121, and S142) are determined to elucidate the mechanism of decoupling. With the exception of the substitution of a large, hydrophobic residue (N139L), all the mutations of N139 resulted in an enzyme with high oxidase activity but with a severely diminished proton pumping stoichiometry. Whereas N207D was previously shown to be decoupled, N207A and N207T exhibit nearly wild-type behavior. The new data display a pattern. Small, nonionizable substitutions of N139 or N12	2010	6	14	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Binding Sites; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutation; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Zhu	Jiapeng
20412442	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2010.07154.x	Eukaryotic behaviour of a prokaryotic energy-transducing membrane: fully detached vesicular organelles arise by budding from the Rhodobacter sphaeroides intracytoplasmic photosynthetic membrane.	A major feature that distinguishes prokaryotic organisms from eukaryotes is their less complex internal structure, in which all membrane-associated functions are thought to be present within a continuous lipid-protein bilayer, rather than with distinct organelles. Contrary to this notion, as described by Tucker and co-workers in this issue of Molecular Microbiology, the application of cryo-electron tomography to the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has demonstrated a heretofore unrecognized ultrastructural complexity within the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) housing the photosynthetic apparatus. In addition to distinguishing invaginations of the cytoplasmic membrane (CM) and interconnected vesicular structures still attached to the CM, a eukaryote-like ICM budding process was revealed, which results in the formation of fully detached vesicular structures. These bacterial organelles are able to carry out both the light-harvesting and light-driven energy transduction activities 	2010	9	20	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Cell Membrane; Cytoplasmic Vesicles; Energy Metabolism; Eukaryota; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Niederman	Robert A
20410293	10.1074/jbc.M110.113738	Structural insight into substrate differentiation of the sugar-metabolizing enzyme galactitol dehydrogenase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides D.	Galactitol 2-dehydrogenase (GatDH) belongs to the protein superfamily of short-chain dehydrogenases. As an enzyme capable of the stereo- and regioselective modification of carbohydrates, it exhibits a high potential for application in biotechnology as a biocatalyst. We have determined the crystal structure of the binary form of GatDH in complex with its cofactor NAD(H) and of the ternary form in complex with NAD(H) and three different substrates. The active form of GatDH constitutes a homo-tetramer with two magnesium-ion binding sites each formed by two opposing C termini. The catalytic tetrad is formed by Asn(116), Ser(144), Tyr(159), and Lys(163). GatDH structurally aligns well with related members of the short-chain dehydrogenase family. The substrate binding pocket can be divided into two parts of different size and polarity. In the smaller part, the side chains of amino acids Ser(144), Ser(146), and Asn(151) are important determinants for the binding specificity and the orientatio	2010	8	24	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Catalytic Domain; Crystallization; Kinetics; Magnesium; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; NAD; Protein Binding; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Substrate Specificity; Sugar Alcohol Dehydrogenases; X-Ray Diffraction	Carius	Yvonne
20396902	10.1007/s00425-010-1166-1	Expression of bacterial tyrosine ammonia-lyase creates a novel p-coumaric acid pathway in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoids in Arabidopsis.	Some flavonoids are considered as beneficial compounds because they exhibit anticancer or antioxidant activity. In higher plants, flavonoids are secondary metabolites that are derived from phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway. A large number of phenylpropanoids are generated from p-coumaric acid, which is a derivative of the primary metabolite, phenylalanine. The first two steps in the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway are catalyzed by phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and cinnamate 4-hydroxylase, and the coupling of these two enzymes forms a rate-limiting step in the pathway. For the generation of p-coumaric acid, the conversion from phenylalanine to p-coumaric acid that is catalyzed by two enzymes can be theoretically performed by a single enzyme, tyrosine ammonia-lyase (TAL) that catalyzes the conversion of tyrosine to p-coumaric acid in certain bacteria. To modify the p-coumaric acid pathway in plants, we isolated a gene encoding TAL from a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaer	2010	9	13	Planta	Planta	Ammonia-Lyases; Arabidopsis; Base Sequence; Chromatography, Liquid; Cloning, Molecular; Coumaric Acids; DNA Primers; Mass Spectrometry; Open Reading Frames; Phenylpropionates; Plants, Genetically Modified; Propionates; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nishiyama	Yasutaka
20380157	10.1134/s1607672910010084	Femtosecond absorption band formation at 1080 and 1020 nm as an indication of charge-separated states P(A)delta+ P7(B)delta- and p+ B(A)- in photosynthetic reaction centers of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2010	5	19	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Absorption; Darkness; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Khatypov	R A
20367608	10.1134/s0006297910020112	Examination of stability of mutant photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides I(L177)H and determination of location of bacteriochlorophyll covalently bound to the protein.	We demonstrated earlier that as a result of the I(L177)H mutation in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, one of the bacteriochlorophylls (BChl) binds with the L-subunit, simultaneously raising coordination stability of the central magnesium atom of the bacteriochlorophyll associated with the protein. In this study, spectral properties of wild type RC and I(L177)H in the presence of urea and SDS as well as at 48 degrees C were examined. It is shown that the I(L177)H mutation decreases the RC stability. Under denaturing conditions, some changes indicating breakdown of oligomeric structure of the complex and loss of interaction between pigments and their protein environment are observed in I(L177)H RC spectra. In addition, pheophytinization of bacteriochlorophylls occurs in both types of RC in the presence of SDS. However, an 811-nm band is observed in the spectrum of the mutant RC under these conditions, which indicates retention of one of th	2010	6	22	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Absorption; Bacteriochlorophylls; Hot Temperature; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Stability; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate; Spectrum Analysis; Urea	Fufina	T Y
20365398	10.1103/PhysRevE.81.011906	Decoherence dynamics of coherent electronic excited states in the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this paper, we present a theoretical description to the quantum coherence and decoherence phenomena of energy transfer in photosynthesis observed in a recent experiment [Science 316, 1462 (2007)]. As a successive two-color laser pulses with selected frequencies cast on a sample of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rb. sphaeroides two resonant excitations of electrons in chromophores can be generated. However, this effective two-level subsystem will interact with its protein environment and decoherence is inevitable. We describe this subsystem coupled with its environment as a dynamical spin-boson model. The non-Markovian decoherence dynamics is described using a quasiadiabatic propagator path integral (QUAPI) approach. With the photon-induced effective time-dependent level splitting energy and level flip coupling coefficient between the two excited states and the environment-induced non-Markovian decoherence dynamics, our theoretical result is in good agreement with the experiment	2010	7	6	Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys	Physical review. E, Statistical, nonlinear, and soft matter physics	Algorithms; Computer Simulation; Electrons; Lasers; Models, Biological; Photons; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Liang	Xian-Ting
20345158	10.1021/jp1003424	B-branch electron transfer in the photosynthetic reaction center of a Rhodobacter sphaeroides quadruple mutant. Q- and W-band electron paramagnetic resonance studies of triplet and radical-pair cofactor states.	The directionality of light-induced charge transfer in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) with respect to their A and B cofactor branches is still poorly understood on the electronic level. A prominent example is primary electron transfer in the RCs from the purple bacterium Rb. sphaeroides. Site-directed mutants with specific alterations of the cofactor binding sites with respect to the native system can deliver useful information toward a better understanding of the directionality enigma. Here we report on electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) studies of the LDHW quadruple mutant, HL(M182)/GD(M203)/LH(M214)/AW(M260), which contains crucial mutations in the electron-transfer pathway. The directionality of the charge separation process was studied under light- or dark-freezing conditions first directly by 95 GHz (W-band) high-field EPR spectroscopy examining the charge-separated radical pairs (P865...+ Q(B)......) of the primary donor P865, a bacteriochlorophyll dimer, and	2011	3	2	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Coenzymes; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Marchanka	A
20340141	10.1002/bit.22722	Derepressive effect of NH4+ on hydrogen production by deleting the glnA1 gene in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Purple non-sulfur (PNS) bacteria produce hydrogen by photofermentation of organic acids in wastewater. However, NH(4)(+) in wastewater may inhibit hydrogen synthesis by repressing the expression and activity of nitrogenase, the enzyme catalyzing hydrogen production in PNS bacteria. In this study, the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 6016 glnA gene encoding glutamine synthetase (GS) was knocked out by homologous recombination, and the effects on hydrogen production and nitrogenase activity were examined. Using 3 mM glutamine as the nitrogen source, hydrogen production (1,245-1,588 mL hydrogen/L culture) and nitrogenase activity were detected in the mutant in the presence of relatively high NH(4)(+) concentrations (15-40 mM), whereas neither was detected in the wild-type strain under the same conditions. Further analysis indicated that high NH(4)(+) concentrations greatly inhibited the expression of nifA and nitrogenase gene in the wild-type strain but not in the glnA1(-) mutant. These observatio	2010	8	17	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Gene Knockout Techniques; Glutamate-Ammonia Ligase; Glutamine; Hydrogen; Nitrogenase; Quaternary Ammonium Compounds; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Li	Xinfeng
20340122	10.1002/cphc.200900896	ENDOR study of charge migration in photosynthetic arrays of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The chemistry of bacterial photosynthesis begins in the photosynthetic reaction centre (RC), a protein complex containing a series of electron donor and acceptor molecules. Although the pigments of the RC can absorb light to operate the photochemistry, the bulk of the light is captured in special pigmented proteins, the light harvesting complexes (LHCs), that then transfer the energy to the RC. Ordinarily, the LHCs do not participate in chemical reactions during photosynthesis such that LHCs do not become oxidised upon light irradiation. However, upon chemical oxidation in the dark, cation radicals of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) can be formed in the light harvesting complex 1 (LH1) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. As observed by continuous-wave electron-paramagnetic resonance (EPR), the charges of the BChl(+) cations migrate rather freely about the LH1 complex as in a molecular wire. Remarkably, these LH1 molecular wires continue to function in the frozen, solid state. To investigate the nat	2010	7	19	Chemphyschem	Chemphyschem : a European journal of chemical physics and physical chemistry	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hasjim	Petersen L
20307488	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.03.012	Blocking the K-pathway still allows rapid one-electron reduction of the binuclear center during the anaerobic reduction of the aa3-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The K-pathway is one of the two proton-input channels required for function of cytochrome c oxidase. In the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase, the K-channel starts at Glu101 in subunit II, which is at the surface of the protein exposed to the cytoplasm, and runs to Tyr288 at the heme a3/CuB active site. Mutations of conserved, polar residues within the K-channel block or inhibit steady state oxidase activity. A large body of research has demonstrated that the K-channel is required to fully reduce the heme/Cu binuclear center, prior to the reaction with O2, presumably by providing protons to stabilize the reduced metals (ferrous heme a3 and cuprous CuB). However, there are conflicting reports which raise questions about whether blocking the K-channel blocks both electrons or only one electron from reaching the heme/Cu center. In the current work, the rate and extent of the anaerobic reduction of the heme/Cu center were monitored by optical and EPR spectroscopies, comparing th	2011	1	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Substitution; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutant Proteins; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ganesan	Krithika
20304993	10.1128/JB.01605-09	Overlapping alternative sigma factor regulons in the response to singlet oxygen in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Organisms performing photosynthesis in the presence of oxygen have to cope with the formation of highly reactive singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) and need to mount an adaptive response to photooxidative stress. Here we show that the alternative sigma factors RpoH(I) and RpoH(II) are both involved in the (1)O(2) response and in the heat stress response in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We propose RpoH(II) to be the major player in the (1)O(2) response, whereas RpoH(I) is more important for the heat stress response. Mapping of the 5' ends of RpoH(II)- and also RpoH(I)/RpoH(II)-dependent transcripts revealed clear differences in the -10 regions of the putative promoter sequences. By using bioinformatic tools, we extended the RpoH(II) regulon, which includes genes induced by (1)O(2) exposure. These genes encode proteins which are, e.g., involved in methionine sulfoxide reduction and in maintaining the quinone pool. Furthermore, we identified small RNAs which depend on RpoH(I) and RpoH(II) and are likely	2010	5	18	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Blotting, Northern; Computational Biology; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Heat-Shock Proteins; Hot Temperature; Methylene Blue; Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Pyruvaldehyde; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Temperature	Nuss	Aaron M
20232894	10.1021/nl1003569	Long-range energy propagation in nanometer arrays of light harvesting antenna complexes.	Here we report the first observation of long-range transport of excitation energy within a biomimetic molecular nanoarray constructed from LH2 antenna complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Fluorescence microscopy of the emission of light after local excitation with a diffraction-limited light beam reveals long-range transport of excitation energy over micrometer distances, which is much larger than required in the parent bacterial system. The transport was established from the influence of active energy-guiding layers on the observed fluorescence emission. We speculate that such an extent of energy migration occurs as a result of efficient coupling between many hundreds of LH2 molecules. These results demonstrate the potential for long-range energy propagation in hybrid systems composed of natural light harvesting antenna molecules from photosynthetic organisms.	2010	7	15	Nano Lett	Nano letters	Biomimetic Materials; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Nanotechnology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Thermodynamics	Escalante	Maryana
20200747	10.1039/b905934b	An investigation of slow charge separation in a tyrosine M210 to tryptophan mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center by femtosecond mid-infrared spectroscopy.	Energy and electron transfer in a tyrosine M210 to tryptophan (YM210W) mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center (RC) were investigated through time-resolved visible pump/mid-infrared (mid-IR) probe spectroscopy at room temperature, with the aim to further characterize the primary charge separated states in the RC. This mutant is known to display slow and multi-exponential charge separation, and was used in earlier work to prove the existence of an alternative route for charge separation starting from the accessory bacteriochlorophyll in the active branch, B(L). The mutant RCs were excited at 860 nm (direct excitation of the primary donor (P) BChls (P(L)/P(M))), 600 nm (unselective excitation), 805 nm (direct excitation of both accessory bacteriochlorophyll cofactors B(L) and B(M)) and 795 nm (direct excitation of B(L)). Absorption changes associated with carbonyl (C=O) stretch vibrational modes of the cofactors and protein were recorded in the region between 1600 and 1775 	2010	5	27	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Time Factors; Tryptophan; Tyrosine	Pawlowicz	Natalia P
20195885	10.1007/s10295-010-0699-4	Coenzyme Q10 production in a 150-l reactor by a mutant strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	For the commercial production of CoQ(10), batch-type fermentations were attempted in a 150-l fermenter using a mutant strain of R. sphaeroides. Optimum temperature and initial aeration rate were found to be 30 degrees C and 2 vvm, respectively. Under optimum fermentation conditions, the maximum value of specific CoQ(10) content was achieved reproducibly as 6.34 mg/g DCW after 24 h, with 3.02 g/l of DCW. During the fermentation, aeration shift (from the adequate aeration at the early growth phase to the limited aeration in active cellular metabolism) was a key factor in CoQ(10) production for scale-up. A higher value of the specific CoQ(10) content (8.12 mg/g DCW) was achieved in fed-batch fermentation and comparable to those produced by the pilot-scale fed-batch fermentations of A. tumefaciens, which indicated that the mutant strain of R. sphaeroides used in this study was a potential high CoQ(10) producer. This is the first detailed study to demonstrate a pilot-scale production of CoQ	2010	7	20	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Fermentation; Industrial Microbiology; Mutation; Pilot Projects; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Ubiquinone	Kien	Nguyen Ba
20192226	10.1021/bi901719e	Partial steps of charge translocation in the nonpumping N139L mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase with a blocked D-channel.	The N139L substitution in the D-channel of cytochrome oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides results in an approximately 15-fold decrease in the turnover number and a loss of proton pumping. Time-resolved absorption and electrometric assays of the F --&gt; O transition in the N139L mutant oxidase result in three major findings. (1) Oxidation of the reduced enzyme by O(2) shows approximately 200-fold inhibition of the F --&gt; O step (k approximately 2 s(-1) at pH 8) which is not compatible with enzyme turnover ( approximately 30 s(-1)). Presumably, an abnormal intermediate F(deprotonated) is formed under these conditions, one proton-deficient relative to a normal F state. In contrast, the F --&gt; O transition in N139L oxidase induced by single-electron photoreduction of intermediate F, generated by reaction of the oxidized enzyme with H(2)O(2), decelerates to an extent compatible with enzyme turnover. (2) In the N139L mutant, the protonic phase of Deltapsi generation coupled to the flas	2010	4	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Electricity; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Iron; Liposomes; Membrane Potentials; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photochemical Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Siletsky	Sergey A
20148590	10.1021/ac9028483	Conductometric method for the rapid characterization of the substrate specificity of amine-transaminases.	Amine-transaminases (ATAs, omega-transaminases, omega-TA) are PLP-dependent enzymes that catalyze amino group transfer reactions. In contrast to the widespread and well-known amino acid-transaminases, ATAs are able to convert substrates lacking an alpha-carboxylic functional group. They have gained increased attention because of their potential for the asymmetric synthesis of optically active amines, which are frequently used as building blocks for the preparation of numerous pharmaceuticals. Having already introduced a fast kinetic assay based on the conversion of the model substrate alpha-methylbenzylamine for the characterization of the amino acceptor specificity, we now report on a kinetic conductivity assay for investigating the amino donor specificity of a given ATA. The course of an ATA-catalyzed reaction can be followed conductometrically since the conducting substrates, a positively charged amine and a negatively charged keto acid, are converted to nonconducting products, a no	2010	6	14	Anal Chem	Analytical chemistry	Amines; Calibration; Catalysis; Chromatography, Gas; Electric Conductivity; Kinetics; Substrate Specificity; Transaminases	Sch..tzle	Sebastian
20146468	10.1021/bi902140e	Dependence of catalytic activity on driving force in solution assays and protein film voltammetry: insights from the comparison of nitrate reductase mutants.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides periplasmic nitrate reductase (Rs NapAB) is one of the enzymes whose assays give odd results: in spectrophotometric assays with methyl viologen as the electron donor, the activity increases as the reaction progresses, whereas the driving force provided by the soluble redox partner decreases; in protein film voltammetry (PFV), whereby the enzyme directly exchanges electrons with an electrode, the activity of NapAB decreases at large overpotential, whereas a monotonic increase is expected [Elliott, S. J., et al. (2002) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1555, 54-59]. The relations between these phenomena and the catalytic mechanism are still debated. By studying NapAB mutants, we found that the peculiar dependences of electrochemical and solution activities on driving force are greatly affected by substituting certain amino acids that are located in the vicinity of the active site (M153, Q384, R392); this led us to establish and discuss the relation between the experimental p	2010	4	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Biocatalysis; Catalytic Domain; Electrochemistry; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Nitrate Reductase; Periplasm; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Spectrum Analysis	Fourmond	Vincent
20117076	10.1016/j.bbabio.2010.01.027	A pathogenic mutation in cytochrome c oxidase results in impaired proton pumping while retaining O(2)-reduction activity.	In this work we have investigated the effect of a pathogenic mitochondrial DNA mutation found in human colon cells, at a functional-molecular level. The mutation results in the amino-acid substitution Tyr19His in subunit I of the human CytcO and it is associated with respiratory deficiency. It was introduced into Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which carries a cytochrome c oxidase (cytochrome aa(3)) that serves as a model of the mitochondrial counterpart. The residue is situated in the middle of a pathway that is used to transfer substrate protons as well as protons that are pumped across the membrane. The Tyr33His (equivalent residue in the bacterial CytcO) structural variant of the enzyme was purified and its function was investigated. The results show that in the structurally altered CytcO the activity decreased due to slowed proton transfer; proton transfer from an internal proton donor, the highly-conserved Glu286, to the catalytic site was slowed by a factor of approximately 5, while re	2010	5	26	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Substitution; Catalysis; Catalytic Domain; Colonic Neoplasms; DNA, Mitochondrial; Electron Transport Complex IV; Humans; Kinetics; Mitochondria; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Oxygen; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship	Namslauer	Ida
20112981	10.1021/bi901922t	Structural and spectroscopic consequences of hexacoordination of a bacteriochlorophyll cofactor in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center .	The structural and functional consequences of changing the coordination state of one of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) cofactors in the purple bacterial reaction center have been explored. A combination of steady state spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography was used to demonstrate that mutagenesis of residue 181 of the L-polypeptide from Phe to Arg (FL181R) causes the BChl at the accessory (B(B)) position on the so-called inactive cofactor branch to become hexacoordinated, with no significant changes to the structure of the surrounding protein. This change was accompanied by the appearance of a distinctive absorbance band at 631 nm in the room-temperature absorbance spectrum. The ligand donor was not the Arg side chain but rather an intervening water molecule, and contrary to expectations, the Mg of B(B) did not adopt a more in-plane geometry in response to hexacoordination. The mutation caused a disturbance to the detailed conformation of the BChl macrocycle that manifested in a numbe	2010	4	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Arginine; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Crystallography, X-Ray; Ligands; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Frolov	Dmitrij
20067231	10.1021/bi901247h	The influence of hydrogen bonds on the electronic structure of light-harvesting complexes from photosynthetic bacteria.	The influence of hydrogen bonds on the electronic structure of the light-harvesting I complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been examined by site-directed mutagenesis, steady-state optical spectroscopy, and Fourier-transform resonance Raman spectroscopy. Shifts of 4-23 nm in the Q(y) absorption band were observed in seven mutants with single or double changes at Leu alpha44, Trp alpha43, and Trp beta48. Resonance Raman spectra were consistent with the loss of a hydrogen bond with the alteration of either Trp alpha43 or Trp beta48 to Phe. However, when the Trp alpha43 to Phe alteration is combined with Leu alpha44 to Tyr, the spectra show that the loss of the hydrogen bond to alpha43 is compensated by the addition of a new hydrogen bond to Tyr alpha44. Comparison of the absorption and vibrational spectra of the seven mutants suggests that changes in the absorption spectra can be interpreted as being due to both structural and hydrogen-bonding changes. To model these changes, the stru	2010	4	15	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electrons; Fourier Analysis; Hydrogen Bonding; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Phenylalanine; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Tryptophan	Uyeda	G
20064255	10.1186/1752-0509-4-3	Deciphering chemotaxis pathways using cross species comparisons.	Chemotaxis is the process by which motile bacteria sense their chemical environment and move towards more favourable conditions. Escherichia coli utilises a single sensory pathway, but little is known about signalling pathways in species with more complex systems. To investigate whether chemotaxis pathways in other bacteria follow the E. coli paradigm, we analysed 206 species encoding at least 1 homologue of each of the 5 core chemotaxis proteins (CheA, CheB, CheR, CheW and CheY). 61 species encode more than one of all of these 5 proteins, suggesting they have multiple chemotaxis pathways. Operon information is not available for most bacteria, so we developed a novel statistical approach to cluster che genes into putative operons. Using operon-based models, we reconstructed putative chemotaxis pathways for all 206 species. We show that cheA-cheW and cheR-cheB have strong preferences to occur in the same operon as two-gene blocks, which may reflect a functional requirement for co-transc	2010	5	6	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Bacteria; Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Computer Simulation; Models, Biological; Multigene Family; Signal Transduction; Species Specificity	Hamer	Rebecca
20047909	10.1128/JB.01267-09	The apparent malate synthase activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is due to two paralogous enzymes, (3S)-Malyl-coenzyme A (CoA)/{beta}-methylmalyl-CoA lyase and (3S)- Malyl-CoA thioesterase.	Assimilation of acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) is an essential process in many bacteria that proceeds via the glyoxylate cycle or the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. In both assimilation strategies, one of the final products is malate that is formed by the condensation of acetyl-CoA with glyoxylate. In the glyoxylate cycle this reaction is catalyzed by malate synthase, whereas in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway the reaction is separated into two proteins: malyl-CoA lyase, a well-known enzyme catalyzing the Claisen condensation of acetyl-CoA with glyoxylate and yielding malyl-CoA, and an unidentified malyl-CoA thioesterase that hydrolyzes malyl-CoA into malate and CoA. In this study the roles of Mcl1 and Mcl2, two malyl-CoA lyase homologs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, were investigated by gene inactivation and biochemical studies. Mcl1 is a true (3S)-malyl-CoA lyase operating in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. Notably, Mcl1 is a promiscuous enzyme and catalyzes not only the condensation of acetyl-Co	2010	3	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Acetyl Coenzyme A; Acyl Coenzyme A; Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Knockout Techniques; Glyoxylates; Malate Synthase; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Thiolester Hydrolases	Erb	Tobias J
20015026	10.2174/092986610790963663	One-step purification of functional light-harvesting 2 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Most common method for isolation of light-harvesting 2 complex (LH2) is very time-consuming. In our present work functional LH2 complex was one-step rapidly purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides by metal-ion affinity chromatography. The purified LH2 complex exhibited high activity in light absorption and energy transfer. Our present work provides an efficient approach for preparation of functional LH2 complex.	2010	7	13	Protein Pept Lett	Protein and peptide letters	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Ion Exchange; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Octoxynol; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Zhao	Zhiping
19899738	10.1021/pr9005052	Oligomeric characterization of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26.1 by nondenaturing electrophoresis methods.	Blue and colorless native gel electrophoresis in combination with LC-ESI-MS/MS are powerful tools in the analysis of protein networks in biological membranes. We used these techniques in the present study to generate a comprehensive overview on a proteome-wide scale of intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) associated proteins in order to investigate the native supramolecular organization of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26.1 photosynthetic apparatus. The results obtained were compared with past proteomic data, as well as with models for the topology of photosynthetic membranes as derived from previously published atomic force microscopy studies. We identified 52 proteins organized in 10 different multiprotein complexes. We were able to demonstrate the existence of different oligomeric states for the integral membrane pigment-protein complexes dedicated to bacterial photosynthesis. Specifically, we found dimers and trimers, as well as supercomplexes of light-harvesting (LH) 2 at very high molecula	2010	3	30	J Proteome Res	Journal of proteome research	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Liquid; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Membrane Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	D'Amici	Gian Maria
19880605	10.1128/JB.01271-09	Competitive inhibitions of the chlorophyll synthase of Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803 by bacteriochlorophyllide a and the bacteriochlorophyll synthase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by chlorophyllide a.	The photosynthetic growth of Synechocystis sp. strain PCC 6803 is hampered by exogenously added bacteriochlorophyllide a (Bchlide a) in a dose-dependent manner. The growth inhibition caused by Bchlide a, however, is relieved by an increased level of exogenously added chlorophyllide a (Chlide a). The results are explained by the competitive inhibition of chlorophyll synthase by Bchlide a, with inhibition constants (K(I)s) of 0.3 mM and 1.14 mM in the presence of sufficient geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) and phytyl pyrophosphate (PPP), respectively. Surprisingly, the bacteriochlorophyll synthase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is inhibited competitively by Chlide a, with K(I)s of 0.54 mM and 0.77 mM in the presence of sufficient GGPP and PPP, respectively. Consistently, exogenously added Chlide a inhibits the metabolic conversion of exogenously added Bchlide a to bacteriochlorophyll a by an R. sphaeroides bchFNB-bchZ mutant that neither synthesizes nor metabolizes Chlide a. The metabolic	2010	1	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Carbon-Oxygen Ligases; Chlorophyllides; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Enzyme Induction; Enzyme Inhibitors; Models, Biological; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis	Kim	Eui-Jin
22245415	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2011.11.006	Light-harvesting complexes from purple sulfur bacteria Allochromatium minutissimum assembled without carotenoids.	Effect of carotenoid (Car) biosynthesis inhibitor diphenylamine (DPA) on purple sulfur bacteria Allochromatium (Alc) minutissimum cell growth has been investigated. Cell growth in the presence of maximum concentration of DPA results in practically complete suppression (...99%) of carotenoids (Cars) according to the spectrophotometric, HPLC and CD data. Phytoene does not replace the colored carotenoids in these cells. Also Phytoene does not accumulate in large amounts in the cells treated with DPA. A new method for calculating the content of Cars in the complexes from the cells with inhibited Car synthesis including the number of empty Car's "pockets" has been used. Our results together with published data devoted to DPA action on the cell growth of purple bacteria revealed that Phytoene was not accumulated in the cells treated with DPA. We have concluded that (i) DPA completely inhibits or strongly reduces synthesis of the colored Cars in the cells of purple bacteria, (ii) Phytoene is 	2012	5	22	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Diphenylamine; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes	Moskalenko	A A
22209778	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.12.007	Primary charge separation within P870* in wild type and heterodimer mutants in femtosecond time domain.	Primary charge separation dynamics in the reaction center (RC) of purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and its P870 heterodimer mutants have been studied using femtosecond time-resolved spectroscopy with 20 and 40fs excitation at 870nm at 293K. Absorbance increase in the 1060-1130nm region that is presumably attributed to P(A)(..+) cation radical molecule as a part of mixed state with a charge transfer character P*(P(A)(..+)P(B)(..-)) was found. This state appears at 120-180fs time delay in the wild type RC and even faster in H(L173)L and H(M202)L heterodimer mutants and precedes electron transfer (ET) to B(A) bacteriochlorophyll with absorption band at 1020nm in WT. The formation of the P(A)(..+)B(A)(..-) state is a result of the electron transfer from P*(P(A)(..+)P(B)(..-)) to the primary electron acceptor B(A) (still mixed with P*) with the apparent time delay of ~1.1ps. Next step of ET is accompanied by the 3-ps appearance of bacteriopheophytin a(-) (H(A)(-)) band at 960nm. The	2013	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khatypov	R A
22191993	10.1021/jp2088109	Two-dimensional spectroscopy can distinguish between decoherence and dephasing of zero-quantum coherences.	Recent experiments on a variety of photosynthetic antenna systems have revealed that coherences among electronic states persist longer than previously anticipated. In an ensemble measurement, the observed dephasing of a coherent state can occur because of either disorder across the ensemble or decoherence from interactions with the bath. Distinguishing how much such disorder affects the experimentally observed dephasing rate is paramount for understanding the role that quantum coherence may play in energy transfer through these complexes. Here, we show that two-dimensional electronic spectra can distinguish between the limiting cases of homogeneous dephasing (decoherence) and inhomogeneous dephasing by examining how the quantum beat frequency changes within a cross peak. For the antenna complex LH2 isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides , we find that dephasing of the coherence between the B850 and B800 rings arises predominantly from inhomogeneity. In contrast, within the Fenna-Matthew	2012	5	25	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Bacterial Proteins; Chlorobium; Electrons; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Thermodynamics	Fidler	Andrew F
22172736	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.11.015	Proton transfer in ba(3) cytochrome c oxidase from Thermus thermophilus.	The respiratory heme-copper oxidases catalyze reduction of O(2) to H(2)O, linking this process to transmembrane proton pumping. These oxidases have been classified according to the architecture, location and number of proton pathways. Most structural and functional studies to date have been performed on the A-class oxidases, which includes those that are found in the inner mitochondrial membrane and bacteria such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans (aa(3)-type oxidases in these bacteria). These oxidases pump protons with a stoichiometry of one proton per electron transferred to the catalytic site. The bacterial A-class oxidases use two proton pathways (denoted by letters D and K, respectively), for the transfer of protons to the catalytic site, and protons that are pumped across the membrane. The B-type oxidases such as, for example, the ba(3) oxidase from Thermus thermophilus, pump protons with a lower stoichiometry of 0.5 H(+)/electron and use only one proton path	2012	5	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Cytochrome b Group; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protons; Thermus thermophilus	von Ballmoos	Christoph
22172735	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.11.019	A comparative spectroscopic and kinetic study of photoexcitations in detergent-isolated and membrane-embedded LH2 light-harvesting complexes.	Integral membrane proteins constitute more than third of the total number of proteins present in organisms. Solubilization with mild detergents is a common technique to study the structure, dynamics, and catalytic activity of these proteins in purified form. However beneficial the use of detergents may be for protein extraction, the membrane proteins are often denatured by detergent solubilization as a result of native lipid membrane interactions having been modified. Versatile investigations of the properties of membrane-embedded and detergent-isolated proteins are, therefore, required to evaluate the consequences of the solubilization procedure. Herein, the spectroscopic and kinetic fingerprints have been established that distinguish excitons in individual detergent-solubilized LH2 light-harvesting pigment-protein complexes from them in the membrane-embedded complexes of purple photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides. A wide arsenal of spectroscopic techniques in visible opti	2013	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Detergents; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Scattering, Radiation; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Temperature	Freiberg	Arvi
22150281	10.1134/S0006297911120091	Investigation of the redox interaction between Mn-bicarbonate complexes and reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26, Chromatium minutissimum, and Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	The change in the dark reduction rate of photooxidized reaction centers (RC) of type II from three anoxygenic bacteria (Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26, Chromatium minutissimum, and Chloroflexus aurantiacus) having different redox potentials of the P(+)/P pair and availability of RC for exogenous electron donors was investigated upon the addition of Mn(2+) and HCO(3)(-). It was found that the dark reduction of P(870)(+) from Rb. sphaeroides R-26 is considerably accelerated upon the combined addition of 0.5 mM MnCl(2) and 30-75 mM NaHCO(3) (as a result of formation of "low-potential" complexes [Mn(HCO(3))(2)]), while MnCl(2) and NaHCO(3) added separately had no such effect. The effect is not observed either in RC from Cf. aurantiacus (probably due to the low oxidation potential of the primary electron donor, P(865), which results in thermodynamic difficulties of the redox interaction between P(865)(+) and Mn(2+)) or in RC from Ch. minutissimum (apparently due to the presence of the RC-boun	2012	4	19	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Chlorides; Chloroflexus; Chromatium; Kinetics; Light; Manganese Compounds; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Terentyev	V V
22148392	10.1021/jp211702b	Role of protein dynamics in guiding electron-transfer pathways in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The role of protein dynamics in guiding multistep electron transfer is explored in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides . The energetics of the charge-separated intermediates, P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) (P is the initial electron donor bacteriochlorophyll pair and B(A) and H(A) are early bacteriochlorophyll and bacteriopheophytin acceptors, respectively), were systematically varied in a series of mutants. A fast phase of P(+)H(A)(-) recombination was resolved that is very sensitive to driving force. Either increasing or decreasing the relative free energy of P(+)H(A)(-) resulted in a more prominent fast recombination component, and thus a decreased yield forward electron transfer. The fast phase apparently represents P(+)H(A)(-) charge recombination via an activated state, probably P(+)B(A)(-) (B(A) is situated between P and H(A)). In wild type, this activated state is largely inaccessible, presumably due to dynamic stabilization of P(+)H(A)(-) within the firs	2012	5	8	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Time Factors	Wang	Haiyu
22146012	10.1021/jp206697k	Role of PufX in photochemical charge separation in the RC-LH1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: an ultrafast mid-IR pump-probe Investigation.	Photochemical charge separation in isolated reaction center-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was examined using time-resolved mid-infrared pump-probe spectroscopy. Absorption difference spectra were recorded between 1760 and 1610 cm(-1) with subpicosecond time resolution to characterize excited-state and radical pair dynamics in these complexes, via the induced absorption changes in the keto carbonyl modes of the bacteriochlorophylls and bacteriopheophytins. Experiments on RC-LH1 complexes with and without the polypeptide PufX show that its presence is required to achieve generation of the radical pair P(+)Q(A)(-) under mildly reducing conditions. In the presence of PufX, the final radical pair formed over a ~3 ns period was P(+)Q(A)(-), but in its absence the corresponding radical pair was P(+)H(A)(-), implying that Q(A) was either absent in these PufX-deficient complexes or was prereduced. However, P(+)Q(A)(-) could be generated in PufX-deficient com	2012	5	8	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pheophytins; Photochemical Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Stahl	Andreas D
22111959	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2011.07928.x	Functional and structural effects of seven-residue deletions on the coiled-coil cytoplasmic domain of a chemoreceptor.	Chemoreceptors transmit signals from the environment to the flagellar motors via a histidine kinase that controls the phosphorylation level of the effector protein CheY. The cytoplasmic domain of chemoreceptors is strongly conserved and consists of a long alpha-helical hairpin that forms, in the dimer, a coiled-coil four-helix bundle. Changes in this domain during evolution are characterized by the presence of seven-residue insertions/deletions located symmetrically with respect to the hairpin turn, suggesting that specific interactions between the helices that form the hairpin are required for function. We assessed the impact of seven-residue deletions on the signalling ability and higher-order organization of the serine chemoreceptor from Escherichia coli. Our results indicate that symmetry alterations between the two branches of the cytoplasmic hairpin seriously compromise chemoreceptor function. Shorter functional versions of Tsr with symmetrical deletions form mixed trimers of dim	2012	4	9	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Membrane Proteins; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Receptors, Cell Surface; Sequence Deletion	Massazza	Diego A
22098236	10.1134/S000629791110004X	Coherent phenomena of charge separation in reaction centers of LL131H and LL131H/LM160H/FM197H mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Primary stage of charge separation and transfer of charges was studied in reaction centers (RCs) of point mutants LL131H and LL131H/LM160H/FM197H of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by differential absorption spectroscopy with temporal resolution of 18 fsec at 90 K. Difference absorption spectra measured at 0-4 psec delays after excitation of dimer P at 870 nm with 30 fsec step were obtained in the spectral range of 935-1060 nm. It was found that a decay of P* due to charge separation is considerably slower in the mutant RCs in comparison with native RCs of Rba. sphaeroides. Coherent oscillations were found in the kinetics of stimulated emission of the P* state at 940 nm. Fourier analysis of the oscillations revealed a set of characteristic bands in the frequency range of 20-500 cm(-1). The most intense band has the frequency of ~130 cm(-1) in RCs of mutant LL131H and in native RCs and the frequency of ~100 cm(-1) in RCs of the triple mutant. It was found that an absorption	2012	3	19	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy	Yakovlev	A G
22093079	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2011.02459.x	Evolutionary origin of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides specialized RpoN sigma factors.	Gene duplication and horizontal gene transfer (HGT) are two events that enable the generation of new genes. Rhodobacter sphaeroides (WS8 and 2.4.1 strains) has four copies of the rpoN gene that are not functionally interchangeable. Until now, this is the only example of specialization of this sigma factor. In this work, we aimed to determine whether the multiple copies of this gene originated from HGT or through gene duplication. Our results suggest a multiplication origin of the different rpoN copies that occurred after the Rhodobacter clade separated. Functional tests indicate that the specialization of the rpoN genes is not restricted to R. sphaeroides. We propose that the rpoN copy involved in nitrogen fixation is the ancestral gene and that the other rpoN genes have acquired new specificities.	2012	5	1	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Bacterial Proteins; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Dosage; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor	Domenzain	Clelia
22079525	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.10.009	Cross-species investigation of the functions of the Rhodobacter PufX polypeptide and the composition of the RC-LH1 core complex.	In well-characterised species of the Rhodobacter (Rba.) genus of purple photosynthetic bacteria it is known that the photochemical reaction centre (RC) is intimately-associated with an encircling LH1 antenna pigment protein, and this LH1 antenna is prevented from completely surrounding the RC by a single copy of the PufX protein. In Rba. veldkampii only monomeric RC-LH1 complexes are assembled in the photosynthetic membrane, whereas in Rba. sphaeroides and Rba. blasticus a dimeric form is also assembled in which two RCs are surrounded by an S-shaped LH1 antenna. The present work established that dimeric RC-LH1 complexes can also be isolated from Rba. azotoformans and Rba. changlensis, but not from Rba. capsulatus or Rba. vinaykumarii. The compositions of the monomers and dimers isolated from these four species of Rhodobacter were similar to those of the well-characterised RC-LH1 complexes present in Rba. sphaeroides. Pigment proteins were also isolated from strains of Rba. sphaeroides 	2012	4	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Organisms, Genetically Modified; Peptides; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity	Crouch	Lucy I
22056933	10.1128/JB.05959-11	Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses a reductive route via propionyl coenzyme A to assimilate 3-hydroxypropionate.	3-Hydroxypropionate is a product or intermediate of the carbon metabolism of organisms from all three domains of life. However, little is known about how carbon derived from 3-hydroxypropionate is assimilated by organisms that can utilize this C(3) compound as a carbon source. This work uses the model bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to begin to elucidate how 3-hydroxypropionate can be incorporated into cell constituents. To this end, a quantitative assay for 3-hydroxypropionate was developed by using recombinant propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) synthase from Chloroflexus aurantiacus. Using this assay, we demonstrate that R. sphaeroides can utilize 3-hydroxypropionate as the sole carbon source and energy source. We establish that acetyl-CoA is not the exclusive entry point for 3-hydroxypropionate into the central carbon metabolism and that the reductive conversion of 3-hydroxypropionate to propionyl-CoA is a necessary route for the assimilation of this molecule by R. sphaeroides. 	2012	3	6	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Acyl Coenzyme A; Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenases; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Energy Metabolism; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Lactic Acid; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Schneider	Kathrin
22056932	10.1128/JB.05624-11	Network identification and flux quantification of glucose metabolism in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under photoheterotrophic H(2)-producing conditions.	The nonsulfur purple bacteria that exhibit unusual metabolic versatility can produce hydrogen gas (H(2)) using the electrons derived from metabolism of organic compounds during photoheterotrophic growth. Here, based on (13)C tracer experiments, we identified the network of glucose metabolism and quantified intracellular carbon fluxes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131 grown under H(2)-producing conditions. Moreover, we investigated how the intracellular fluxes in R. sphaeroides responded to knockout mutations in hydrogenase and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate synthase genes, which led to increased H(2) yield. The relative contribution of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway and Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle to glucose metabolism differed significantly in hydrogenase-deficient mutants, and this flux change contributed to the increased formation of the redox equivalent NADH. Disruption of hydrogenase and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate synthase resulted in a significantly increased flux through the phosphoenolpyruv	2012	3	6	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acids; Carbon; Carbon Isotopes; Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glucose; Glutamic Acid; Glycerol; Hydrogen; Light; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; NAD; Nitrogen; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tao	Yongzhen
22053008	10.1099/mic.0.054700-0	Role of a short light, oxygen, voltage (LOV) domain protein in blue light- and singlet oxygen-dependent gene regulation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides harbours an unusual light, oxygen, voltage (LOV) domain protein, RsLOV. While showing a characteristic photocycle, the protein lacks a C-terminal output domain, similar to PpSB2 in Pseudomonas putida. Oxygen tension and light quantity are the two factors mainly responsible for controlling the expression of photosynthesis genes in R. sphaeroides. Two photoreceptor proteins are known to be involved in this regulation: the intensively studied AppA protein and the more recently identified cryptochrome-like protein CryB. Here we show by transcriptome and physiological studies that RsLOV is also involved in the regulation of photosynthetic gene expression. Our data further hint at a connection between RsLOV, carbohydrate metabolism and chemotaxis, as well as with the cellular response to photooxidative stress. RsLOV affects not only blue light-dependent gene expression but also redox-dependent regulation.	2012	5	21	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen	Metz	Sebastian
22050933	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.10.005	Generation, characterization and crystallization of a cytochrome c(1)-subunit IV fused cytochrome bc(1) complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cytochrome bc(1) complex catalyzes the reaction of electron transfer from ubiquinol to cytochrome c (or cytochrome c(2)) and couples this reaction to proton translocation across the membrane. Crystallization of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides bc(1) complex resulted in crystals containing only three core subunits. To mitigate the problem of subunit IV being dissociated from the three-subunit core complex during crystallization, we recently engineered an R. sphaeroides mutant in which the N-terminus of subunit IV was fused to the C-terminus of cytochrome c(1) with a 14-glycine linker between the two fusing subunits, and a 6-histidine tag at the C-terminus of subunit IV (c(1)-14Gly-IV-6His). The purified fusion mutant complex shows higher electron transfer activity, more structural stability, and less superoxide generation as compared to the wild-type enzyme. Preliminary crystallization attempts with this mutant complex yielded crystals containing four subunits and diffracting X-rays to 5.5..	2012	4	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Animals; Cloning, Molecular; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport Complex III; Horses; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Organisms, Genetically Modified; Photosynthesis; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Subunits; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Su	Ting
22048315	10.1038/nature10568	Structure and function of the AAA+ protein CbbX, a red-type Rubisco activase.	Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) catalyses the fixation of atmospheric CO(2) in photosynthesis, but tends to form inactive complexes with its substrate ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP). In plants, Rubisco is reactivated by the AAA(+) (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) protein Rubisco activase (Rca), but no such protein is known for the Rubisco of red algae. Here we identify the protein CbbX as an activase of red-type Rubisco. The 3.0-.. crystal structure of unassembled CbbX from Rhodobacter sphaeroides revealed an AAA(+) protein architecture. Electron microscopy and biochemical analysis showed that ATP and RuBP must bind to convert CbbX into functionally active, hexameric rings. The CbbX ATPase is strongly stimulated by RuBP and Rubisco. Mutational analysis suggests that CbbX functions by transiently pulling the carboxy-terminal peptide of the Rubisco large subunit into the hexamer pore, resulting in the release of the inhibitory RuBP. Unders	2012	1	25	Nature	Nature	Adenosine Triphosphate; Allosteric Regulation; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Dioxide; Crystallography, X-Ray; Enzyme Activation; Models, Molecular; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Ribulosephosphates; Structure-Activity Relationship	Mueller-Cajar	Oliver
22036913	10.1016/j.biortech.2011.09.082	Semi-continuous photo-fermentative H2 production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides: effect of decanting volume ratio.	In this study, a semi-continuous operation of photo-fermentative H2-producing reactor was attempted at various decanting volume ratios (DVR, decanting volume per day/total working volume, %), ranging 30-70%, using Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131. H2 production was not efficient with showing low H2 yields of 0.2 and 0.5 mol H2/mol succinate(added) at 30% and 40% DVR, respectively. The low performance ascribed to the fact that over 70% of substrate electrons were diverted towards cell growth under these conditions. Meanwhile, cell growth was limited at DVR...50%; therefore, higher H2 yields (&gt;2.0 mol H2/mol succinateadded) were observed. Both the highest H2 yield of 3.7 mol H2/mol succinateadded and production rate of 1494 mL H2/L-reactor/d were achieved at 60% DVR. The content of soluble microbial products (SMPs) was measured, which accounted for 3-15% of substrate electrons. It was found that the largest (65-75%) portion of SMPs comprised low molecular-weight (&lt;3 kDa).	2012	3	20	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Electrons; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Light; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility	Kim	Dong-Hoon
22019135	10.1016/j.pain.2011.09.020	Spinal TLR4 mediates the transition to a persistent mechanical hypersensitivity after the resolution of inflammation in serum-transferred arthritis.	Persistent pain after resolution of clinically appreciable signs of arthritis poses a therapeutic challenge, and immunosuppressive therapies do not meet this medical need. To investigate this conversion to persistent pain, we utilized the K/BxN serum transfer arthritis model, which has persistent mechanical hypersensitivity despite the resolution of visible inflammation. Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 has been implicated as a potential therapeutic target in neuropathic and other pain models. We compared the relative courses of serum transfer arthritis and mechanical hypersensitivity in wild type (WT) and Tlr4(-/-) mice. K/BxN serum transfer induced similar joint swelling and inflammation from days 4-22 in WT and Tlr4(-/-) mice. Unlike WT mice, Tlr4(-/-) mice displayed a significant reversal in mechanical hypersensitivity and diminished appearance of glial activation markers after resolution of peripheral inflammation. Intrathecal (IT) delivery of a TLR4 antagonist, lipopolysaccharide Rhodo	2012	8	16	Pain	Pain	Animals; Arthritis, Experimental; Chronic Pain; Disease Models, Animal; Hyperalgesia; Inflammation Mediators; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Knockout; Signal Transduction; Spinal Cord; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Christianson	Christina A
22017517	10.1021/jp2057767	Coupling between electron transfer and protein-solvent dynamics: FTIR and laser-flash spectroscopy studies in photosynthetic reaction center films at different hydration levels.	We report on the relationship between electron transfer, conformational dynamics, and hydration in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The kinetics of electron transfer from the photoreduced quinone acceptor (Q(A)(-)) to the photo-oxidized primary donor (P(+)), a charge recombination process sensitive to the conformational dynamics of the RC, has been analyzed at room temperature in dehydrated RC-detergent films as a function of the residual water content under controlled relative humidity (r). The hydration level was evaluated by FTIR spectroscopy from the area of the combination band of water (5155 cm(-1)). Sorption isotherms fit the Hailwood and Horrobin model and indicate a significant contribution to hydration of the detergent belt surrounding the RC. Spectral analysis of the water combination and association (2130 cm(-1)) bands suggests strong rearrangements in the hydrogen-bonding organization upon depletion of the hydration shell of the complex. 	2012	4	4	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Water	Malferrari	Marco
21997215	10.1073/pnas.1107543108	Entrance of the proton pathway in cbb3-type heme-copper oxidases.	Heme-copper oxidases (HCuOs) are the last components of the respiratory chain in mitochondria and many bacteria. They catalyze O(2) reduction and couple it to the maintenance of a proton-motive force across the membrane in which they are embedded. In the mitochondrial-like, A family of HCuOs, there are two well established proton transfer pathways leading from the cytosol to the active site, the D and the K pathways. In the C family (cbb(3)) HCuOs, recent work indicated the use of only one pathway, analogous to the K pathway. In this work, we have studied the functional importance of the suggested entry point of this pathway, the Glu-25 (Rhodobacter sphaeroides cbb(3) numbering) in the accessory subunit CcoP (E25(P)). We show that catalytic turnover is severely slowed in variants lacking the protonatable Glu-25. Furthermore, proton uptake from solution during oxidation of the fully reduced cbb(3) by O(2) is specifically and severely impaired when Glu-25 was exchanged for Ala or Gln, wi	2011	12	19	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Membranes; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Nitric Oxide; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Lee	Hyun Ju
21996020	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.09.017	X-ray structure of the dimeric cytochrome bc(1) complex from the soil bacterium Paracoccus denitrificans at 2.7-.. resolution.	The respiratory cytochrome bc(1) complex is a fundamental enzyme in biological energy conversion. It couples electron transfer from ubiquinol to cytochrome c with generation of proton motive force which fuels ATP synthesis. The complex from the ..-proteobacterium Paracoccus denitrificans, a model for the medically relevant mitochondrial complexes, lacked structural characterization. We show by LILBID mass spectrometry that truncation of the organism-specific, acidic N-terminus of cytochrome c(1) changes the oligomerization state of the enzyme to a dimer. The fully functional complex was crystallized and the X-ray structure determined at 2.7-.. resolution. It has high structural homology to mitochondrial complexes and to the Rhodobacter sphaeroides complex especially for subunits cytochrome b and ISP. Species-specific binding of the inhibitor stigmatellin is noteworthy. Interestingly, cytochrome c(1) shows structural differences to the mitochondrial and even between the two Rhodobactera	2012	2	1	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Crystallography, X-Ray; Dimerization; Electron Transport Chain Complex Proteins; Electron Transport Complex III; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Paracoccus denitrificans; Polyenes; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Soil Microbiology	Kleinschroth	Thomas
21970763	10.1021/jp206462g	Mechanism of recombination of the P+H(A)- radical pair in mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers with modified free energy gaps between P+B(A)- and P+H(A)-.	The kinetics of recombination of the P(+)H(A)(-) radical pair were compared in wild-type reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and in seven mutants in which the free energy gap, ..G, between the charge separated states P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A)(-) was either increased or decreased. Five of the mutant RCs had been described previously, and X-ray crystal structures of two newly constructed complexes were determined by X-ray crystallography. The charge recombination reaction was accelerated in all mutants with a smaller ..G than in the wild-type, and was slowed in a mutant having a larger ..G. The free energy difference between the state P(+)H(A)(-) and the PH(A) ground state was unaffected by most of these mutations. These observations were consistent with a model in which the P(+)H(A)(-) ... PH(A) charge recombination is thermally activated and occurs via the intermediate state P(+)B(A)(-), with a mean rate related to the size of the ..G between the states P(+)B(A)(-) and P(+)H(A	2012	3	6	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
21970170	10.1080/09593330.2010.535176	Effects of Mo(VI) on phototrophic hydrogen production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Effects of Mo(6+) concentration on phototrophic hydrogen production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated using lactate as the sole carbon source. Results showed that an increase of Mo(6+) from nil to 1000 microg l(-1) led to increases in hydrogen yield, maximum production rate, conversion efficiency, biomass yield and lactate removal. At 100 microg-Mo l(-1), the maximum rate was 12.0 ml h(-1) with a conversion efficiency of 36.1%, the cell yields were 1.11 g-cell g(-1) -lactate and 2.4 g-cell g(-1)-TOC removed. Further increase of Mo(6+) improved hydrogen production only marginally. Degradation of lactate by R. sphaeroides produced not just hydrogen but also acetate, butyrate, i-valerate, i-caproate, hexanoate and some unidentified organic intermediates, but did not produce propionate and alcohols. Nitrogenase activity, as measured by the acetylene reduction method, had no clear correlation with either Mo(6+) concentration or hydrogen yield.	2011	10	27	Environ Technol	Environmental technology	Bioelectric Energy Sources; Biomass; Bioreactors; Carbon; Fatty Acids; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Lactic Acid; Molybdenum; Phototrophic Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Fang	Herbert H P
21954132	10.1002/cphc.201100545	The resonance Raman spectra of spheroidene revisited with a first-principles approach.	The resonance Raman (RR) spectra of different configurations of spheroidene are calculated by means of quantum chemical methods to investigate the nature of the cis configuration of this carotenoid molecule in the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. For validation of our methodology, we also calculate the spectrum of the all-trans structure present in the light-harvesting complexes of this bacterium. While former theoretical resonance Raman studies only considered truncated models of spheroidene, we report on calculations employing the full pigment here. The calculated frequencies for the all-trans configuration are in good agreement with former experimental and simulated data. Among the possible cis structures, the 15,15'-cis configuration shows a RR spectrum that is in best agreement with the experimental spectrum of spheroidene in the RC. In order to assess model truncation effects, we compare calculations for the full spheroidene mol	2012	3	28	Chemphyschem	Chemphyschem : a European journal of chemical physics and physical chemistry	Binding Sites; Carotenoids; Isomerism; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Thermodynamics	Boereboom	Jelle M
21949073	10.1128/JB.05324-11	Physiological roles for two periplasmic nitrate reductases in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 (ATCC 17025).	The metabolically versatile purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.3 is a denitrifier whose genome contains two periplasmic nitrate reductase-encoding gene clusters. This work demonstrates nonredundant physiological roles for these two enzymes. One cluster is expressed aerobically and repressed under low oxygen while the second is maximally expressed under low oxygen. Insertional inactivation of the aerobically expressed nitrate reductase eliminated aerobic nitrate reduction, but cells of this strain could still respire nitrate anaerobically. In contrast, when the anaerobic nitrate reductase was absent, aerobic nitrate reduction was detectable, but anaerobic nitrate reduction was impaired. The aerobic nitrate reductase was expressed but not utilized in liquid culture but was utilized during growth on solid medium. Growth on a variety of carbon sources, with the exception of malate, the most oxidized substrate used, resulted in nitrite production on solid medium. This is consisten	2012	1	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Multigene Family; Nitrate Reductases; Nitrates; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasm; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hartsock	Angela
21949068	10.1128/JB.05933-11	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, chemotactic operon 1 regulates rotation of the flagellar system 2.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is able to assemble two different flagella, the subpolar flagellum (Fla1) and the polar flagella (Fla2). In this work, we report the swimming behavior of R. sphaeroides Fla2(+) cells lacking each of the proteins encoded by chemotactic operon 1. A model proposing how these proteins control Fla2 rotation is presented.	2012	1	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mart..nez-del Campo	Ana
21943387	10.1186/1752-0509-5-150	Metabolic network modeling of redox balancing and biohydrogen production in purple nonsulfur bacteria.	Purple nonsulfur bacteria (PNSB) are facultative photosynthetic bacteria and exhibit an extremely versatile metabolism. A central focus of research on PNSB dealt with the elucidation of mechanisms by which they manage to balance cellular redox under diverse conditions, in particular under photoheterotrophic growth. Given the complexity of the central metabolism of PNSB, metabolic modeling becomes crucial for an integrated analysis of the accumulated biological knowledge. We reconstructed a stoichiometric model capturing the central metabolism of three important representatives of PNSB (Rhodospirillum rubrum, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris). Using flux variability analysis, the model reveals key metabolic constraints related to redox homeostasis in these bacteria. With the help of the model we can (i) give quantitative explanations for non-intuitive, partially species-specific phenomena of photoheterotrophic growth of PNSB, (ii) reproduce various quantitative exp	2012	5	18	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Acetates; Carbon Dioxide; Hydrogen; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Rhodospirillaceae	H..dicke	Oliver
21938420	10.1007/s12010-011-9375-z	A new nitrilase-producing strain named Rhodobacter sphaeroides LHS-305: biocatalytic characterization and substrate specificity.	The characteristics of the new nitrilase-producing strain Rhodobacter sphaeroides LHS-305 were investigated. By investigating several parameters influencing nitrilase production, the specific cell activity was ultimately increased from 24.5 to 75.0 ..mol g(-1) min(-1), and hereinto, the choice of inducer proved the most important factor. The aromatic nitriles (such as 3-cyanopyridine and benzonitrile) were found to be the most favorable substrates of the nitrilase by analyzing the substrate spectrum. It was speculated that the unsaturated carbon atom attached to the cyano group was crucial for this type of nitrilase. The value of apparent K (m), substrate inhibition constant, and product inhibition constant of the nitrilase against 3-cyanopyridine were 4.5........10(-2), 29.2, and 8.6........10(-3) mol L(-1), respectively. When applied in nicotinic acid preparation, the nitrilase is able to hydrolyze 200 mmol L(-1) 3-cyanopyridine with 93% conversion rate in 13 h by 6.1 g L(-1) cells (	2012	2	29	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	Aminohydrolases; Bacterial Proteins; Biocatalysis; Enzyme Stability; Kinetics; Nitriles; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Yang	Chunsheng
21909395	10.1371/journal.pone.0024488	Monoolein lipid phases as incorporation and enrichment materials for membrane protein crystallization.	The crystallization of membrane proteins in amphiphile-rich materials such as lipidic cubic phases is an established methodology in many structural biology laboratories. The standard procedure employed with this methodology requires the generation of a highly viscous lipidic material by mixing lipid, for instance monoolein, with a solution of the detergent solubilized membrane protein. This preparation is often carried out with specialized mixing tools that allow handling of the highly viscous materials while minimizing dead volume to save precious membrane protein sample. The processes that occur during the initial mixing of the lipid with the membrane protein are not well understood. Here we show that the formation of the lipidic phases and the incorporation of the membrane protein into such materials can be separated experimentally. Specifically, we have investigated the effect of different initial monoolein-based lipid phase states on the crystallization behavior of the colored pho	2012	1	5	PLoS One	PloS one	Crystallization; Glycerides; Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Models, Biological; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Wallace	Ellen
21908636	10.1128/AEM.05463-11	Salt stress-induced changes in the transcriptome, compatible solutes, and membrane lipids in the facultatively phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Responses to NaCl stress were investigated in phototrophically grown Alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by transcriptome profiling, mutational analysis, and measurements of compatible solutes and membrane phospholipids. After exposure to salt stress, genes encoding two putative glycine betaine uptake systems, proVWX and betS, were highly upregulated. Mutational analysis revealed that BetS, not ProVWX, was the primary transporter of this compatible solute. Upon the addition of salt, exogenous glycine betaine was taken up rapidly, and maximal intracellular levels were reached within minutes. In contrast, synthesis of another important compatible solute in R. sphaeroides, trehalose, increased slowly following salt stress, reaching maximal levels only after several hours. This accumulation pattern was consistent with the more gradual increase in salt-induced transcription of the trehalose biosynthesis operon otsBA. Several genes encoding putative transcription factors were highly	2012	2	7	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Betaine; DNA Mutational Analysis; Membrane Lipids; Metabolome; Osmotic Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Sodium Chloride; Stress, Physiological; Time Factors; Transcriptome; Trehalose	Tsuzuki	Minoru
21903751	10.1099/mic.0.051607-0	The RSP_2889 gene product of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a CueR homologue controlling copper-responsive genes.	Metal homeostasis is important in all living cells in order to provide sufficient amounts of metal ions for biological processes but to prevent toxic effects by excess amounts. Here we show that the gene product of RSP_2889 of the facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is homologous to CueR, a regulator of copper metabolism in Escherichia coli and other bacteria. CueR binds to the promoter regions of genes for a copper-translocating ATPase and for a copper chaperone and is responsible for their high expression when cells are exposed to elevated levels of copper ions. While deletion of RSP_2889 has no significant effect on copper resistance, expression from a low-copy-number plasmid mediates increased sensitivity to copper.	2012	3	15	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; Copper; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Escherichia coli; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Peuser	Verena
21903465	10.1016/j.jbiosc.2011.08.008	Efficient hydrogen production from acetate through isolated Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic bacteria produce hydrogen from lactate and acetate that are products of hydrogen producing bacteria in the dark. Thus, their coculture is a promising method for hydrogen production. However, the hydrogen production yield from acetate of Rhodobacter sphaeroides RV, which has been shown to possess the highest yield and hydrogen production rate, is low as compared to that from lactate. Photosynthetic bacteria that produce hydrogen from acetate as well as lactate were screened from lakes and swamps in the Tokyo and Chiba areas in Japan. Seventy-six strains of photosynthetic bacteria were obtained and the analysis of their 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that they belong to R. sphaeroides. Among the isolated bacteria, R. sphaeroides HJ produced the highest amount of hydrogen from acetate and lactate. The HJ strain produced a 2300..93ml/L-broth of hydrogen from 75mM acetate consumed during for 120h of fermentation. The amount of hydrogen and the yield from acetate were 1.9 an	2012	4	23	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	Acetates; Anaerobiosis; Animals; Biofuels; Biomass; Bioreactors; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Japan; Lactates; Lakes; Light; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tokyo	Kobayashi	Jyumpei
21895666	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2011.00997.x	Theoretical study of electron transfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center.	We investigate the substitution effects on electron transfer in Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides reaction center using ab initio calculations. The overlap of molecular orbitals in the X-ray structure of 1PCR of the protein data bank using Gaussian09 can qualitatively explain the tendency of the experimental transition time. The charge effects of proteins on electron transfer in Rb. sphaeroides reaction center are also investigated, by employing a simple point charge approximation for proteins. We have found that the primary effect for the route A orientation is the effect of long side chains. For the route A orientation on the electron transfer, the influence of the charges of proteins operates through the long side chains indirectly as well as directly work to increase the value of overlap integrals.	2012	1	25	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hiyama	Miyabi
21894992	10.1021/ja207750z	Lipid binding to the carotenoid binding site in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Lipid binding to the carotenoid binding site near the inactive bacteriochlorophyll monomer was probed in the reaction centers of carotenoid-less mutant, R-26 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Recently, a marked light-induced change of the local dielectric constant in the vicinity of the inactive bacteriochlorophyll monomer was reported in wild type that was attributed to structural changes that ultimately lengthened the lifetime of the charge-separated state by 3 orders of magnitude (Deshmukh, S. S.; Williams, J. C.; Allen, J. P.; Kalman, L. Biochemistry 2011, 50, 340). Here in the R-26 reaction centers, the combination of light-induced structural changes and lipid binding resulted in a 5 orders of magnitude increase in the lifetime of the charge-separated state involving the oxidized dimer and the reduced primary quinone in proteoliposomes. Only saturated phospholipids with fatty acid chains of 12 and 14 carbon atoms long were bound successfully at 8 ..C by cooling the reaction center pro	2012	1	23	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Carotenoids; Lipid Metabolism; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Deshmukh	Sasmit S
21884699	10.1016/j.expneurol.2011.08.012	High-mobility group box-1 impairs memory in mice through both toll-like receptor 4 and Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products.	High-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) is a nuclear protein with cytokine-type functions upon its extracellular release. HMGB1 activates inflammatory pathways by stimulating multiple receptors, chiefly toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products (RAGE). TLR4 and RAGE activation has been implicated in memory impairments, although the endogenous ligand subserving these effects is unknown. We examined whether HMGB1 induced memory deficits using novel object recognition test, and which of the two receptor pathways was involved in these effects. Non-spatial long-term memory was examined in wild type, TLR4 knockout, and RAGE knockout mice. Recombinant HMGB1 (10..g, intracerebroventricularly, i.c.v.) disrupted memory encoding equipotently in wild type, TLR4 knockout and RAGE knockout animals, but affected neither memory consolidation, nor retrieval. Neither TLR4 knockout nor RAGE knockout mice per se, exhibited memory deficits. Blockade of TLR4 in RAGE knockout mic	2011	12	20	Exp Neurol	Experimental neurology	Animals; Brain Diseases; HMGB1 Protein; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Memory Disorders; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Knockout; Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products; Receptors, Immunologic; Recognition, Psychology; Recombinant Proteins; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Mazarati	Andr..y
21871433	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.08.003	Cytochrome c oxidase: charge translocation coupled to single-electron partial steps of the catalytic cycle.	The paper presents a survey of time-resolved studies of charge translocation by cytochrome c oxidase coupled to transfer of the 1st, 2nd 3rd and 4th electrons in the catalytic cycle. Single-electron photoreduction experiments carried out with the A-class cytochrome c oxidases of aa(3) type from mitochondria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans as well as with the ba(3)-type oxidase from Thermus thermophilus indicate that the protonmotive mechanisms, although similar, may not be identical for different partial steps in the same enzyme species, as well as for the same single-electron transition in different oxidases. The pattern of charge translocation coupled to transfer of a single electron in the A-class oxidases confirms major predictions of the original model of proton pumping by cytochrome oxidase [Artzatbanov, V. Y., Konstantinov, A. A. and Skulachev, V.P. "Involvement of Intramitochondrial Protons in Redox Reactions of Cytochrome a." FEBS Lett. 87: 180-185]. The 	2012	5	10	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Paracoccus denitrificans; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermus thermophilus	Siletsky	Sergey A
21863833	10.1021/ja205811f	Slow dissociation of a charged ligand: analysis of the primary quinone Q(A) site of photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers.	Reaction centers (RCs) are integral membrane proteins that undergo a series of electron transfer reactions during the process of photosynthesis. In the Q(A) site of RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, ubiquinone-10 is reduced, by a single electron transfer, to its semiquinone. The neutral quinone and anionic semiquinone have similar affinities, which is required for correct in situ reaction thermodynamics. A previous study showed that despite similar affinities, anionic quinones associate and dissociate from the Q(A) site at rates ...10(4) times slower than neutral quinones indicating that anionic quinones encounter larger binding barriers (Madeo, J.; Gunner, M. R. Modeling binding kinetics at the Q(A) site in bacterial reaction centers. Biochemistry 2005, 44, 10994-11004). The present study investigates these barriers computationally, using steered molecular dynamics (SMD) to model the unbinding of neutral ground state ubiquinone (UQ) and its reduced anionic semiquinone (SQ(-)) from the	2012	2	13	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Crystallography, X-Ray; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Madeo	Jennifer
21863386	10.1007/s11120-011-9681-x	Differential assembly of polypeptides of the light-harvesting 2 complex encoded by distinct operons during acclimation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides to low light intensity.	In order to obtain an improved understanding of the assembly of the bacterial photosynthetic apparatus, we have conducted a proteomic analysis of pigment-protein complexes isolated from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides undergoing acclimation to reduced incident light intensity. Photoheterotrophically growing cells were shifted from 1,100 to 100..W/m(2) and intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) vesicles isolated over 24-h were subjected to clear native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Bands containing the LH2 and reaction center (RC)-LH1 complexes were excised and subjected to in-gel trypsin digestion followed by liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectroscopy (MS)/MS. The results revealed that the LH2 band contained distinct levels of the LH2-.. and -.. polypeptides encoded by the two puc operons. Polypeptide subunits encoded by the puc2AB operon predominated under high light and in the early stages of acclimation to low light, while after 24..h, the puc1BAC components were most 	2012	1	5	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Acclimatization; Cell Membrane; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Biological; Operon; Peptides; Pigments, Biological; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Woronowicz	Kamil
21856820	10.1128/AEM.05273-11	Pathways involved in reductant distribution during photobiological H(2) production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We used global transcript analyses and mutant studies to investigate the pathways that impact H(2) production in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We found that H(2) production capacity is related to the levels of expression of the nitrogenase and hydrogenase enzymes and the enzymes of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham pathway.	2012	2	2	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Gene Expression Profiling; Hydrogen; Hydrogenase; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Nitrogenase; Photosynthesis; Reducing Agents; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kontur	Wayne S
21827152	10.1021/jp204239v	Comparing the temperature dependence of photosynthetic electron transfer in Chloroflexus aurantiacus and Rhodobactor sphaeroides reaction centers.	The process of electron transfer from the special pair, P, to the primary electron donor, H(A), in quinone-depleted reaction centers (RCs) of Chloroflexus (Cf.) aurantiacus has been investigated over the temperature range from 10 to 295 K using time-resolved pump-probe spectroscopic techniques. The kinetics of the electron transfer reaction, P* ... P(+)H(A)(-), was found to be nonexponential, and the degree of nonexponentiality increased strongly as temperature decreased. The temperature-dependent behavior of electron transfer in Cf. aurantiacus RCs was compared with that of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides . Distinct transitions were found in the temperature-dependent kinetics of both Cf. aurantiacus and Rb. sphaeroides RCs, at around 220 and 160 K, respectively. Structural differences between these two RCs, which may be associated with those differences, are discussed. It is suggested that weaker protein-cofactor hydrogen bonding, stronger electrostatic interactions	2012	2	7	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Light; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protein Folding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Guo	Zhi
21809113	10.1007/s11120-011-9673-x	Overexpression of Rhodobacter sphaeroides PufX-bearing maltose-binding protein and its effect on the stability of reconstituted light-harvesting core antenna complex.	The PufX protein, encoded by the pufX gene of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, plays a key role in the organization and function of the core antenna (LH1)-reaction centre (RC) complex, which collects photons and triggers primary photochemical reactions. We synthesized a PufX/maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion protein to study the effect of the PufX protein on the reconstitution of B820 subunit-type and LH1-type complexes. The fusion protein was synthesized using an Escherichia coli expression system and purified by affinity chromatography. Reconstitution experiments demonstrated that the MBP-PufX protein destabilizes the subunit-type complex (20..C), consistent with previous reports. Interestingly, however, the preformed LH1-type complex was stable in the presence of MBP-PufX. The MBP-PufX protein did not influence the preformed LH1-type complexes (4..C). The LH1-type complex containing MBP-PufX showed a unique temperature-dependent structural transformation that was irreversible. The predom	2014	7	7	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Maltose; Maltose-Binding Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptides; Protein Stability; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Sakai	Shunnsuke
21803040	10.1016/j.febslet.2011.07.026	Anti-HIV siamycin I directly inhibits autophosphorylation activity of the bacterial FsrC quorum sensor and other ATP-dependent enzyme activities.	Siamycin I disrupts growth and quorum sensing in Enterococcus faecalis. Using purified intact protein, we demonstrate here that quorum membrane sensor kinase FsrC is a direct target of siamycin I, reducing pheromone-stimulated autophosphorylation activity by up to 91%. Inhibition was non-competitive with ATP as substrate. Other ATP-binding enzymes were also inhibited, including nine other membrane sensor kinases of E. faecalis, Rhodobacter sphaeroides PrrB, porcine Na(+)-dependent ATPase and the catalytic subunit of bovine protein kinase A, but not bacterial ..-galactosidase, confirming targeted inhibition of a wide range of ATP dependent reactions, and elucidating a likely mechanism underlying the lethality of the inhibitor.	2011	10	27	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Adenosine Triphosphatases; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Cattle; Enterococcus faecalis; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Inhibitors; Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins; Kinetics; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Peptides; Phosphorylation; Quorum Sensing; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Swine; beta-Galactosidase	Ma	Pikyee
21790140	10.1021/ja204869h	Oligomerization state of photosynthetic core complexes is correlated with the dimerization affinity of a transmembrane helix.	In the Rhodobacter (Rba.) species of photosynthetic purple bacteria, a single transmembrane ..-helix, PufX, is found within the core complex, an essential photosynthetic macromolecular assembly that performs the absorption and the initial processing of light energy. Despite its structural simplicity, many unresolved questions surround PufX, the most important of which is its location within the photosynthetic core complex. One proposed placement of PufX is at the center of a core complex dimer, where two PufX helices associate in the membrane and form a homodimer. Inability for PufX of certain Rba. species to form a homodimer is thought to lead to monomeric core complexes. In the present study, we employ a combination of computational and experimental techniques to test the hypothesized homodimerization of PufX. We carry out a systematic investigation to measure the dimerization affinity of PufX from four Rba. species, Rba. blasticus , Rba. capsulatus , Rba. sphaeroides , and Rba. veld	2011	12	21	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter; Sequence Alignment	Hsin	Jen
21786698		[Triplet state of the primary donor in reaction centers of the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 with active photoinduced electron transfer].	EPR characteristics of transient paramagnetic states photoinduced in isolated reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 with intact electron transfer have been studied. It was demonstrated that the detected weak triplet state EPR signal belongs to the primary donor molecule and is populated via the conventional mechanism of radical pair S-T0 mixing. The distortion of the spectral shape of this signal is explained by the triplet quantum yield anisotropy brought about by the short lifetime of precursor radical pairs. The angular dependence of the anisotropy was evaluated. It was shown that the spectral shape of the triplet state of photosystem II reaction center observed in the case of singly-reduced primary quinone acceptor can also be described by the anisotropic quantum yield of the triplet, with practically the same angular dependence. These properties confirm the conclusions on the mechanism of photoinduced electron transfer in photosystem II, made in previous publications. Th	2011	9	28	Biofizika	Biofizika	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Light; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Klenina	I B
21785991	10.1007/s11120-011-9666-9	Effects of the measuring light on the photochemistry of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The bacterial reaction center (RC) has become a reference model in the study of the diverse interactions of quinones with electron transfer complexes. In these studies, the RC functionality was probed through flash-induced absorption changes where the state of the primary donor is probed by means of a continuous measuring beam and the electron transfer is triggered by a short intense light pulse. The single-beam set-up implies the use as reference of the transmittance measured before the light pulse. Implicit in the analysis of these data is the assumption that the measuring beam does not elicit the protein photochemistry. At variance, measuring beam is actinic in nature at almost all the suitable wavelengths. In this contribution, the analytical modelling of the time evolution of neutral and charge-separated RCs has been performed. The ability of measuring light to elicit RC photochemistry induces a first order growth of the charge-separated state up to a steady state that depends on 	2012	1	5	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Atrazine; Herbicides; Light; Photobleaching; Photochemical Processes; Photolysis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Husu	Ivan
21777427	10.1186/1752-0509-5-116	iRsp1095: a genome-scale reconstruction of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides metabolic network.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is one of the best studied purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria and serves as an excellent model for the study of photosynthesis and the metabolic capabilities of this and related facultative organisms. The ability of R. sphaeroides to produce hydrogen (H...), polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) or other hydrocarbons, as well as its ability to utilize atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO...) as a carbon source under defined conditions, make it an excellent candidate for use in a wide variety of biotechnological applications. A genome-level understanding of its metabolic capabilities should help realize this biotechnological potential. Here we present a genome-scale metabolic network model for R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1, designated iRsp1095, consisting of 1,095 genes, 796 metabolites and 1158 reactions, including R. sphaeroides-specific biomass reactions developed in this study. Constraint-based analysis showed that iRsp1095 agreed well with experimental observations when 	2011	10	17	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Aerobiosis; Autotrophic Processes; Biological Transport; Biomass; Biotransformation; Genes, Bacterial; Genomics; Hydrogen; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Models, Biological; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Imam	Saheed
21751433	10.1002/btpr.668	Immobilized purple bacteria for light-driven H2 production from starch and potato fermentation effluents.	The goal of the study was to show that immobilized purple bacteria could photoproduce H(2) using dark fermentation effluent (FE) as substrate. Simple pretreatment of an inexpensive glass-fiber matrix accelerated the immobilization process. Photobioreactors (PhBR) containing immobilized Rhodobacter sphaeroides GL produced 0.128 L H(2) h(-1) L(-1) of PhBR volume (0.570 L h(-1) L(-1) of matrix) for up to 3 months when continuously fed artificial media with volatile fatty acids (VFAs) or FE from potato and starch fermentations. Hydrogen production was insensitive to NH(4)(+) up to 1 mM and saturated at 8 mM lactate or 1.5% potato FE (diluted in water and supplemented with critical micronutrients). The efficiency of VFA transformation to H(2) was 50-70% of theoretical. At nonlimiting substrate concentrations in artificial media or FE, acetate was utilized before butyrate. High volumetric rates of continuous H(2) photoproduction and stability of the process are advantages of using immobilize	2012	2	8	Biotechnol Prog	Biotechnology progress	Fermentation; Hydrogen; Light; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solanum tuberosum; Starch	Tekucheva	Darya N
21722793	10.1016/B978-0-12-381043-4.00004-0	Singlet oxygen stress in microorganisms.	Singlet oxygen is the primary agent of photooxidative stress in microorganisms. In photosynthetic microorganisms, sensitized generation by pigments of the photosystems is the main source of singlet oxygen and, in nonphotosynthetic microorganisms, cellular cofactors such as flavins, rhodopsins, quinones, and porphyrins serve as photosensitizer. Singlet oxygen rapidly reacts with a wide range of cellular macromolecules including proteins, lipids, DNA, and RNA, and thereby further reactive substances including organic peroxides and sulfoxides are formed. Microorganisms that face high light intensities or exhibit potent photosensitizers have evolved specific mechanisms to prevent photooxidative stress. These mechanisms include the use of quenchers, such as carotenoids, which interact either with excited photosensitizer molecules or singlet oxygen itself to prevent damage of cellular molecules. Scavengers like glutathione react with singlet oxygen. Despite those protection mechanisms, damag	2011	10	27	Adv Microb Physiol	Advances in microbial physiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Carotenoids; Chlamydomonas; Cyanobacteria; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glutathione; Heat-Shock Response; Light; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; Quorum Sensing; RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen	Glaeser	J
21691621	10.1039/c1mt00034a	The effects of protein crowding in bacterial photosynthetic membranes on the flow of quinone redox species between the photochemical reaction center and the ubiquinol-cytochrome c2 oxidoreductase.	Atomic force microscopy (AFM) of the native architecture of the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) of a variety of species of purple photosynthetic bacteria, obtained at submolecular resolution, shows a tightly packed arrangement of light harvesting (LH) and reaction center (RC) complexes. Since there are no unattributed structures or gaps with space sufficient for the cytochrome bc(1) or ATPase complexes, they are localized in membrane domains distinct from the flat regions imaged by AFM. This has generated a renewed interest in possible long-range pathways for lateral diffusion of UQ redox species that functionally link the RC and the bc(1) complexes. Recent proposals to account for UQ flow in the membrane bilayer are reviewed, along with new experimental evidence provided from an analysis of intrinsic near-IR fluorescence emission that has served to test these hypotheses. The results suggest that different mechanism of UQ flow exist between species such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides, with	2012	1	11	Metallomics	Metallomics : integrated biometal science	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Electron Transport Complex III; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones	Woronowicz	Kamil
21684251	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.06.001	Differential effects of glutamate-286 mutations in the aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the cytochrome bo(3) ubiquinol oxidase from Escherichia coli.	Both the aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsCcO(aa3)) and the closely related bo(3)-type ubiquinol oxidase from Escherichia coli (EcQO(bo3)) possess a proton-conducting D-channel that terminates at a glutamic acid, E286, which is critical for controlling proton transfer to the active site for oxygen chemistry and to a proton loading site for proton pumping. E286 mutations in each enzyme block proton flux and, therefore, inhibit oxidase function. In the current work, resonance Raman spectroscopy was used to show that the E286A and E286C mutations in RsCcO(aa3) result in long range conformational changes that influence the protein interactions with both heme a and heme a(3). Therefore, the severe reduction of the steady-state activity of the E286 mutants in RsCcO(aa3) to ~0.05% is not simply a result of the direct blockage of the D-channel, but it is also a consequence of the conformational changes induced by the mutations to heme a and to the heme a(3)-Cu(B)	2011	11	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Catalytic Domain; Copper; Cytochrome b Group; Cytochromes; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Glutamic Acid; Heme; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidoreductases; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Egawa	Tsuyoshi
21670247	10.1073/pnas.1104046108	Calculated vibrational properties of pigments in protein binding sites.	FTIR difference spectroscopy is widely used to probe molecular bonding interactions of protein-bound electron transfer cofactors. The technique is particularly attractive because it provides information on both neutral and radical cofactor states. Such dual information is not easily obtainable using other techniques. Although FTIR difference spectroscopy has been used to study cofactors in biological protein complexes, in nearly all cases interpretation of the spectra has been purely qualitative. Virtually no computational work has been undertaken in an attempt to model the spectra. To address this problem we have developed the use of ONIOM (our own N-layered integrated molecular Orbital..+..Molecular mechanics package) (quantum mechanical:molecular mechanics) methods to calculate FTIR difference spectra associated with protein-bound cofactors. As a specific example showing the utility of the approach we have calculated isotope edited FTIR difference spectra associated with unlabeled a	2011	9	21	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Binding Sites; Models, Chemical; Molecular Structure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Ubiquinone; Vibration	Lamichhane	Hari Prasad
21668872	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2011.00948.x	Use of engineered unique cysteine residues to facilitate oriented coupling of proteins directly to a gold substrate.	A prerequisite for any "lab on a chip" device that utilizes an electrical signal from the sensor protein is the ability to attach the protein in a specific orientation onto a conducting substrate. Here, we demonstrate the covalent attachment to a gold surface of light-harvesting membrane proteins, from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, via cysteine (Cys) residues engineered on either the cytoplasmic or periplasmic face. This simple directed attachment is superior in its ability to retain light-harvesting complex (LHC) function, when compared to a similar attachment procedure utilizing a self-assembled monolayer on gold. LH 1 has previously been observed to have superior photostability over LH 2 (Magis et al. [2010] Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1798, 637-645); this characteristic is maintained even with the introduction of Cys residues.	2011	12	30	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cysteine; Gold; Lab-On-A-Chip Devices; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photochemical Processes; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Magis	Gerhard J
21663730	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.05.019	Monomeric RC-LH1 core complexes retard LH2 assembly and intracytoplasmic membrane formation in PufX-minus mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the model photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides domains of light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complexes surround and interconnect dimeric reaction centre-light-harvesting 1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) 'core' complexes, forming extensive networks for energy transfer and trapping. These complexes are housed in spherical intracytoplasmic membranes (ICMs), which are assembled in a stepwise process where biosynthesis of core complexes tends to dominate the early stages of membrane invagination. The kinetics of LH2 assembly were measured in PufX mutants that assemble monomeric core complexes, as a consequence of either a twelve-residue N-terminal truncation of PufX (PufX..12) or the complete removal of PufX (PufX(-)). Lower rates of LH2 assembly and retarded maturation of membrane invagination were observed for the larger and less curved ICM from the PufX(-) mutant, consistent with the proposition that local membrane curvature, initiated by arrays of bent RC-LH1-PufX dimers, creates a favourable 	2011	9	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Base Sequence; Cytoplasm; DNA Primers; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Adams	Peter G
21651888	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.05.020	Carotenoids are essential for normal levels of dimerisation of the RC-LH1-PufX core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: characterisation of R-26 as a crtB (phytoene synthase) mutant.	Carotenoids play important roles in photosynthesis where they are involved in light-harvesting, in photo-protection and in the assembly and structural stability of light-harvesting and reaction centre complexes. In order to examine the effects of carotenoids on the oligomeric state of the reaction centre-light-harvesting 1 -PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides two carotenoid-less mutants, TC70 and R-26, were studied. Detergent fractionation showed that in the absence of carotenoids LH2 complexes do not assemble, as expected, but also that core complexes are predominantly found as monomers, although levels of the PufX polypeptide appeared to be unaffected. Analysis of R-26 membranes by electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy reveals arrays of hexagonally packed monomeric RC-LH1-PufX complexes. Transfer of the crtB gene encoding phytoene synthase to TC70 and R-26 restores the normal synthesis of carotenoids demonstrating that the R-26 mutant of Rba. sphaeroi	2011	9	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Blotting, Western; Carotenoids; Dimerization; Geranylgeranyl-Diphosphate Geranylgeranyltransferase; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ng	Irene W
21642454	10.1128/JB.00349-11	Regulation of flagellum number by FliA and FlgM and role in biofilm formation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The FlgM secretion checkpoint plays a crucial role in coordinating bacterial flagellar assembly. Here we identify a new role for FlgM and FliA as part of a complex regulatory network which controls flagellum number and is essential for efficient swimming and biofilm formation in the monotrichous bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	2011	9	26	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Biofilms; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor	Wilkinson	David A
21641333	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.05.018	FTIR spectroscopy of the reaction center of Chloroflexus aurantiacus: photoreduction of the bacteriopheophytin electron acceptor.	Mid-infrared spectral changes associated with the photoreduction of the bacteriopheophytin electron acceptor H(A) in reaction centers (RCs) of the filamentous anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium Chloroflexus (Cfl.) aurantiacus are examined by light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The light-induced H(A)(-)/H(A) FTIR (1800-1200cm(-1)) difference spectrum of Cfl. aurantiacus RCs is compared to that of the previously well characterized purple bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides RCs. The most notable feature is that the large negative IR band at 1674cm(-1) in Rba. sphaeroides R-26, attributable to the loss of the absorption of the 13(1)-keto carbonyl of H(A) upon the radical anion H(A)(-) formation, exhibits only a very minor upshift to 1675cm(-1) in Cfl. aurantiacus. In contrast, the absorption band of the 13..-keto C=O of H(A)(-) is strongly upshifted in the spectrum of Cfl. aurantiacus compared to that of Rba. sphaeroides (from 1588 to 1623cm(-1)). The data are	2011	9	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Pheophytins; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Zabelin	Alexej A
21638357	10.1002/rcm.5054	Identification of unsaturated N-acylhomoserine lactones in bacterial isolates of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization-hybrid linear ion trap-Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry.	The identification of two unsaturated N-acylhomoserine lactones (AHLs) produced by Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteria, based on liquid chromatography (LC) coupled to a hybrid quadrupole linear ion trap (LTQ)-Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) mass spectrometer upon electrospray ionization (ESI), is presented. Besides the confirmation of the signaling molecule already described in the literature, i.e. (Z)-N-tetradec-7-enoyl-homoserine lactone (C(14:1)-HSL), we have discovered the occurrence, at low, yet significant levels, of another monounsaturated compound, C(12:1) -HSL, which may extend the number of small diffusible chemical signals known for R. sphaeroides. Both unsaturated AHLs were identified by high-resolution FTICR mass spectrometry in extracts of bacterial culture media and the occurrence of a C=C bond was assessed upon their conversion into bromohydrins. Collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectra were then collected on the LTQ mass analyzer. A careful compariso	2011	9	1	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	Rapid communications in mass spectrometry : RCM	Acyl-Butyrolactones; Alcohols; Chromatography, Liquid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Cataldi	Tommaso R I
21627064	10.1021/jp201296m	The hydrogen-bond switch reaction of the Blrb Bluf domain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The BlrB protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a small 136 amino acid photoreceptor belonging to the BLUF family of blue light receptors. It contains merely the conserved BLUF fold responsible for binding the flavin pigment and a short C-terminal extension of unknown function. We investigated the primary photoreactions of BlrB by picosecond fluorescence and transient absorption spectroscopy. After excitation of the flavin the fluorescence decays in an H/D isotope independent manner with time constants of 21 and 390 ps, indicating a BLUF characteristic heterogeneous excited state quenched by electron transfer. By transient absorption spectroscopy, we observed a rapid relaxation of a vibrationally hot excited state within 6 ps upon excitation at 400 nm. The relaxed excited state evolves biexponentially with 18 ps (27%) and 216 ps (73%) into the signaling state spectrum indicated by a growing absorptive feature at 492 nm. Additionally, a broad triplet feature is observed as residual abs	2011	10	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Deuterium; Electron Transport; Flavins; Hydrogen Bonding; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Mathes	Tilo
23761286	10.1111/j.1758-2229.2011.00245.x	Response of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to iron limitation and the role of a Fur orthologue in this response.	We studied the response of the photosynthetic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to iron limitation in order to get first insights into the underlying mechanisms and the link between iron metabolism and oxidative stress. Our data reveal the production of elevated levels of reactive oxygen species upon iron limitation, nevertheless the response to iron limitation shows clear differences to the oxidative stress response of R....sphaeroides. While most genes of the oxidative stress response were not induced by iron limitation, we observed an upregulation of the alternative sigma factor RpoE, which has a main role in the regulation of the defence to singlet oxygen. Deletion of the Fur orthologue RSP_2494, which was designated Mur as a result of a proposed regulatory role in manganese metabolism, revealed that this protein is involved in regulation of the iron metabolism in R....sphaeroides. One predicted target of Fur/Mur is the sit operon encoding a Mn(2+) /Fe(2+) transport sys	2013	7	4	Environ Microbiol Rep	Environmental microbiology reports	NA	Peuser	Verena
21622735	10.1128/JB.05257-11	Genome sequence of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Strain WS8N.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a metabolically diverse photosynthetic alphaproteobacterium found ubiquitously in soil and freshwater habitats. Here we present the annotated genome sequence of R. sphaeroides WS8N.	2011	9	26	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Base Sequence; Fresh Water; Genome, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Porter	Steven L
21604722	10.1021/jp112413d	Configuration of spheroidene in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides : a comparison of wild-type and reconstituted R26.	We compare the resonance Raman spectra acquired at two excitation wavelengths, 496.5 and 514.5 nm, of spheroidene in the wild-type reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and reconstituted into the reaction center of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant R26. Our earlier work showed that the reconstituted R26 reaction center holds spheroidene in two configurations: 15,15'-cis and another configuration. Here we show that in the wild-type reaction center only 15,15'-cis spheroidene is present. In the resonance Raman spectra of the reconstituted R26 reaction centers, a transition is identified that arises exclusively from the second configuration. According to density-functional-theory calculations, this transition is specific for the 13,14-cis configuration.	2011	12	12	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Carbon Radioisotopes; Carotenoids; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Tritium	Mathies	Guinevere
21601102	10.1016/B978-0-12-385075-1.00023-8	Modification of the genome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and construction of synthetic operons.	The ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an exemplary model organism for the creation and study of novel protein expression systems, especially membrane protein complexes that harvest light energy to yield electrical energy. Advantages of this organism include a sequenced genome, tools for genetic engineering, a well-characterized metabolism, and a large membrane surface area when grown under hypoxic or anoxic conditions. This chapter provides a framework for the utilization of R. sphaeroides as a model organism for membrane protein expression, highlighting key advantages and shortcomings. Procedures covered in this chapter include the creation of chromosomal gene deletions, disruptions, and replacements, as well as the construction of a synthetic operon using a model promoter to induce expression of modified photosynthetic reaction center proteins for structural and functional analysis.	2011	9	13	Methods Enzymol	Methods in enzymology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Multigene Family; Operon; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synthetic Biology	Jaschke	Paul R
21599648	10.1042/BST0390775	Mapping lipid and detergent molecules at the surface of membrane proteins.	Electron-density maps for the crystal structures of membrane proteins often show features suggesting binding of lipids and/or detergent molecules on the hydrophobic surface, but usually it is difficult to identify the bound molecules. In our studies, heavy-atom-labelled phospholipids and detergents have been used to unequivocally identify these binding sites at the surfaces of test membrane proteins, the reaction centres from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Blastochloris viridis. The generality of this method is discussed in the present article.	2011	9	13	Biochem Soc Trans	Biochemical Society transactions	Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Detergents; Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Phospholipids; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cogdell	Richard J
21597611	10.1039/c1cp20172g	Reconstitution of bacterial photosynthetic unit in a lipid bilayer studied by single-molecule spectroscopy at 5 K.	As a model of photosynthetic unit (PSU), self-assembled aggregates of pigment-protein complexes from photosynthetic bacteria were prepared in a lipid bilayer by reconstitution of the light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complex and light-harvesting 1-reaction center (LH1-RC) complex through detergent removal of their micelles in the presence of lipids. By performing polarization-controlled fluorescence and fluorescence-excitation spectroscopy on single aggregates at a temperature of 5 K, the composition of individual aggregates was determined and excitation energy transfer (EET) between constituent complexes was observed. LH2 and LH1-RC from a bacterium, Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides, were found to form a trimeric aggregate in which EET takes place from one LH2 to two LH1-RCs. In contrast, a heterodimer of LH2 and LH1-RC in which EET works was found to assemble from a combination of complexes of different bacterial species, that is, LH2 from Rb. sphaeroides and LH1-RC from Rhodopseudomonas (Rps.) 	2011	10	4	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Cold Temperature; Dimerization; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipid Bilayers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Uchiyama	Daisuke
21585320	10.1134/s0006297911040079	Properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction center with double amino acid substitution I(L177)H+H(M182)L.	Histidine M182 in the reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides serves as the fifth ligand of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) B(B) Mg atom. When this His is substituted by an amino acid that is not able to coordinate Mg, bacteriopheophytin appears in the B(B) binding site instead of BChl (Katilius, E., et al. (1999) J. Phys. Chem. B, 103, 7386-7389). We have shown that in the presence of the additional mutation I(L177)H the coordination of the BChl B(B) Mg atom in the double mutant I(L177)H+H(M182)L RC still remains. Changes in the double mutant RC absorption spectrum attributed to BChl absorption suggest that BChl B(B) Mg atom axial ligation might be realized not from the usual ..-side of the BChl macrocycle, but from the opposite, ..-side. Weaker coordination of BChl B(B) Mg atom compared to the other mutant RC BChl molecules suggests that not an amino acid residue but a water molecule might be a possible ligand. The results are discussed in the light of the structural changes t	2011	9	9	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Fufina	T Yu
21575568	10.1016/j.bpj.2011.04.017	Modeling the light- and redox-dependent interaction of PpsR/AppA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Facultative photosynthetic bacteria switch their energy generation mechanism from respiration to photosynthesis depending on oxygen tension and light. Part of this transition is mediated by the aerobic transcriptional repressor PpsR. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the repressive action of PpsR is antagonized by the redox- and blue-light-sensitive flavoprotein AppA which results in a unique phenotype: the repression of photosynthesis genes at intermediate oxygen levels and high light intensity, which is believed to reduce the risk of photooxidative stress. To analyze the underlying mechanism we developed a simple mathematical model based on the AppA-dependent reduction of a disulfide bond in PpsR and the light-sensitive complex formation between the reduced forms of AppA and PpsR. A steady-state analysis shows that high light repression can indeed occur at intermediate oxygen levels if PpsR is reduced on a faster timescale than AppA and if the electron transfer from AppA to PpsR is effecti	2011	9	5	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Aerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Genes, Bacterial; Light; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pandey	Rakesh
21573199	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1001130	Feedback control architecture and the bacterial chemotaxis network.	Bacteria move towards favourable and away from toxic environments by changing their swimming pattern. This response is regulated by the chemotaxis signalling pathway, which has an important feature: it uses feedback to 'reset' (adapt) the bacterial sensing ability, which allows the bacteria to sense a range of background environmental changes. The role of this feedback has been studied extensively in the simple chemotaxis pathway of Escherichia coli. However it has been recently found that the majority of bacteria have multiple chemotaxis homologues of the E. coli proteins, resulting in more complex pathways. In this paper we investigate the configuration and role of feedback in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a bacterium containing multiple homologues of the chemotaxis proteins found in E. coli. Multiple proteins could produce different possible feedback configurations, each having different chemotactic performance qualities and levels of robustness to variations and uncertainties in biologi	2011	9	7	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotactic Factors; Chemotaxis; Feedback, Physiological; Linear Models; Models, Biological; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Systems Biology	Hamadeh	Abdullah
21539791	10.1016/j.bpj.2011.02.048	Direct visualization of exciton reequilibration in the LH1 and LH2 complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by multipulse spectroscopy.	The dynamics of the excited states of the light-harvesting complexes LH1 and LH2 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are governed, mainly, by the excitonic nature of these ring-systems. In a pump-dump-probe experiment, the first pulse promotes LH1 or LH2 to its excited state and the second pulse dumps a portion of the excited state. By selective dumping, we can disentangle the dynamics normally hidden in the excited-state manifold. We find that by using this multiple-excitation technique we can visualize a 400-fs reequilibration reflecting relaxation between the two lowest exciton states that cannot be directly explored by conventional pump-probe. An oscillatory feature is observed within the exciton reequilibration, which is attributed to a coherent motion of a vibrational wavepacket with a period of ...150 fs. Our disordered exciton model allows a quantitative interpretation of the observed reequilibration processes occurring in these antennas.	2011	8	17	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Thermodynamics	Cohen Stuart	Thomas A
21535243	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2011.07658.x	Contribution of Hfq to photooxidative stress resistance and global regulation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The photosynthetic alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has to cope with photooxidative stress that is caused by the bacteriochlorophyll a-mediated formation of singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)). Exposure to (1)O(2) induces the alternative sigma factors RpoE and RpoH(II) which then promote transcription of photooxidative stress-related genes, including small RNAs (sRNAs). The ubiquitous RNA chaperone Hfq is well established to interact with and facilitate the base-pairing of sRNAs and target mRNAs to influence mRNA stability and/or translation. Here we report on the pleiotropic phenotype of a ..hfq mutant of R. sphaeroides, which is less pigmented, produces minicells and is more sensitive to (1)O(2). The higher (1)O(2) sensitivity of the ..hfq mutant is paralleled by a reduced RpoE activity and a disordered induction of RpoH(II)-dependent genes. We used co-immunoprecipitation of FLAG-tagged Hfq combined with RNA-seq to identify association of at least 25 sRNAs and of mRNAs encoding cell	2011	12	7	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Host Factor 1 Protein; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Berghoff	Bork A
21515726	10.1128/AEM.00341-11	New motion analysis system for characterization of the chemosensory response kinetics of Rhodobacter sphaeroides under different growth conditions.	We developed a new set of software tools that enable the speed and response kinetics of large numbers of tethered bacterial cells to be rapidly measured and analyzed. The software provides precision, accuracy, and a good signal-to-noise ratio combined with ease of data handling and processing. The software was tested on the single-cell chemosensory response kinetics of large numbers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells grown under either aerobic or photoheterotrophic conditions and either in chemostats or in batch cultures, allowing the effects of growth conditions on responses to be accurately measured. Aerobically and photoheterotrophically grown R. sphaeroides exhibited significantly different chemosensory response kinetics and cell-to-cell variability in their responses to 100 ..M propionate. A greater proportion of the population of aerobically grown cells responded to a 100 ..M step decrease in propionate; they adapted faster and showed less cell-to-cell variability than photosynthet	2011	9	12	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Aerobiosis; Chemotaxis; Heterotrophic Processes; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Microbiological Techniques; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software	Kojadinovic	Mila
21515364	10.1016/j.resmic.2011.04.008	The photosynthetic membrane proteome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26.1 exposed to cobalt.	Cells of the carotenoidless strain R-26.1 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were grown in the presence of a high concentration (5..mM) of cobalt ions. The photosynthetic intracytoplasmic membranes were isolated and investigated by proteomic analysis using non-denaturating blue native electrophoresis in combination with LC-ESI-MS/MS. Comparison with intracytoplasmic membranes of cells grown under control conditions showed a change in the relative amount of proteins belonging to the photosynthetic apparatus, with net downregulation of light-harvesting complexes and increased concentration of the nude reaction center (RC), as well as upregulation of enzymes related to chemoorganotrophy. These effects represent possible bacterial adaptation so as to retrieve energy for metabolic processes from sources alternative to less efficient photosynthesis. The influence of cobalt on the photochemistry of the RC in cell extracts was also investigated by charge recombination. The kinetics of the charge recom	2011	9	21	Res Microbiol	Research in microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cobalt; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Mass Spectrometry; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Italiano	Francesca
21502322	10.1074/jbc.M110.212605	A BchD (magnesium chelatase) mutant of rhodobacter sphaeroides synthesizes zinc bacteriochlorophyll through novel zinc-containing intermediates.	Heme and bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl) biosyntheses share the same pathway to protoporphyrin IX, which then branches as follows. Fe(2+) chelation into the macrocycle by ferrochelatase results in heme formation, and Mg(2+) addition by Mg-chelatase commits the porphyrin to BChl synthesis. It was recently discovered that a bchD (Mg-chelatase) mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides produces an alternative BChl in which Mg(2+) is substituted by Zn(2+). Zn-BChl has been found in only one other organism before, the acidophilic Acidiphilium rubrum. Our objectives in this work on the bchD mutant were to 1) elucidate the Zn-BChl biosynthetic pathway in this organism and 2) understand causes for the low amounts of Zn-BChl produced. The bchD mutant was found to contain a Zn-protoporphyrin IX pool, analogous to the Mg-protoporphyrin IX pool found in the wild type strain. Inhibition of ferrochelatase with N-methylprotoporphyrin IX caused Zn-protoporphyrin IX and Zn-BChl levels to decline by 80-90% in the 	2011	8	5	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Ferrochelatase; Lyases; Models, Biological; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Jaschke	Paul R
21488646	10.1021/jp200077e	Carotenoid excited-state properties in photosynthetic purple bacterial reaction centers: effects of the protein environment.	Carotenoid excited-state properties are characterized and compared in reaction centers (RCs) of wild-type (WT) Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides , and a mutant VR(L157), in which the near-infrared absorbance band associated with the primary electron donor, P, is missing. Energy transfer from the carotenoid (spheroidenone) S(2) and relaxed S(1) excited states to an adjacent monomeric-bacteriochlorophyll is unchanged between WT and the mutant RC samples. However, two other excited states, including a vibrationally hot S(1) state and a state referred to as S*, have distinct properties in the two RCs. The lifetime of the hot S(1) state is significantly shortened in the P-less mutant compared to WT RCs (450 fs vs 800 fs, respectively), and there is a nearly 2-fold decrease in the efficiency of energy transfer from the carotenoid to bacteriochlorophyll in the P-less mutant relative to WT RCs. The fact that both the observed hot S(1) excited state lifetime and the energy transfer efficiency decre	2011	9	8	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carotenoids; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Pan	Jie
21486039	10.1021/jp107480x	Excitation-emission polarization spectroscopy of single light harvesting complexes.	Excitation and emission polarization dependence of fluorescence intensity of single LH2 complexes from Rhodopseudomonas acidophila 10050 and Rhodobacter sphaeroides is reported. The results are presented as two-dimensional polarization plots and interpreted in terms of tilted light harvesting complexes indicating that sample preparation leads to partially oriented LH2 cylinders. An alternative explanation of the observation can be structural deformation. Fluorescence intensity of the complexes has four qualitatively distinct excitation-emission polarization dependencies. The differences in excitation polarization dependence are interpreted as due to the tilt of the complexes, whereas the emission polarization behavior is mainly determined by spectral inhomogeneity of the emitting B850 ring. Some complexes show abrupt reversible variations of the total emission intensity together with changes of the polarization properties which cannot be described by the simplest model of tilted LH2s w	2011	8	9	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Tubasum	Sumera
21476580	10.1021/bi1017039	Combined genetic and metabolic manipulation of lipids in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reveals non-phospholipid substitutions in fully active cytochrome c oxidase.	A specific requirement for lipids, particularly cardiolipin (CL), in cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) has been reported in many previous studies using mainly in vitro lipid removal approaches in mammalian systems. Our accompanying paper shows that CcO produced in markedly CL-depleted Rhodobacter sphaeroides displays wild-type properties in all respects, likely allowed by quantitative substitution with other negatively charged lipids. To further examine the structural basis for the lipid requirements of R. sphaeroides CcO and the extent of interchangeability between lipids, we employed a metabolic approach to enhance the alteration of the lipid profiles of the CcO-expressing strains of R. sphaeroides in vivo using a phosphate-limiting growth medium in addition to the CL-deficient mutation. Strikingly, the purified CcO produced under these conditions still maintained wild-type function and characteristics, in spite of even greater depletion of cardiolipin compared to that of the CL-deficient m	2011	8	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Stability; Membrane Lipids; Oxidation-Reduction; Phosphates; Phospholipids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Zhang	Xi
21476578	10.1021/bi101702c	Cardiolipin deficiency in Rhodobacter sphaeroides alters the lipid profile of membranes and of crystallized cytochrome oxidase, but structure and function are maintained.	Many recent studies highlight the importance of lipids in membrane proteins, including in the formation of well-ordered crystals. To examine the effect of changes in one lipid, cardiolipin, on the lipid profile and the production, function, and crystallization of an intrinsic membrane protein, cytochrome c oxidase, we mutated the cardiolipin synthase (cls) gene of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, causing a &gt;90% reduction in cardiolipin content in vivo and selective changes in the abundances of other lipids. Under these conditions, a fully native cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) was produced, as indicated by its activity, spectral properties, and crystal characteristics. Analysis by MALDI tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) revealed that the cardiolipin level in CcO crystals, as in the membranes, was greatly decreased. Lipid species present in the crystals were directly analyzed for the first time using MS/MS, documenting their identities and fatty acid chain composition. The fatty acid content of ca	2011	8	1	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Cardiolipins; Crystallization; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Lipid Metabolism; Membrane Lipids; Membrane Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Structure-Activity Relationship; Tandem Mass Spectrometry; Transferases (Other Substituted Phosphate Groups)	Zhang	Xi
21466178	10.1021/jp111340w	Quantum chemical simulations of excited-state absorption spectra of photosynthetic bacterial reaction center and antenna complexes.	The semiempirical ZINDO/S CIS configuration interaction method has been used to study the ground- and excited-state absorption spectra of wild type and heterodimer M202HL reaction centers from purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides as well as of peripheral LH2 and LH3 light harvesting complexes from purple bacterium Rhodopseudomonas acidophila. The calculations well reproduce the experimentally observed excited-state absorption spectra between 1000 and 17,000 cm(-1), despite the necessarily limited number of chromophores and protein subunits involved in the calculations. The electron density analysis reveals that the charge transfer between adjacent chromophores dominates the excited-state absorption spectra. Clear spectroscopic differences observed between the wild type and heterodimer reaction centers as well as between the LH2 and LH3 antenna complexes arise from differences in the energy level manifolds of the complexes, particularly those of the charge transfer states. The calcu	2011	8	25	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Absorption; Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Quantum Theory; Rhodopseudomonas	Linnanto	J
21463601	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.03.012	Proton-transport mechanisms in cytochrome c oxidase revealed by studies of kinetic isotope effects.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CytcO) is a membrane-bound enzyme, which catalyzes the reduction of di-oxygen to water and uses a major part of the free energy released in this reaction to pump protons across the membrane. In the Rhodobacter sphaeroides aa... CytcO all protons that are pumped across the membrane, as well as one half of the protons that are used for O... reduction, are transferred through one specific intraprotein proton pathway, which holds a highly conserved Glu286 residue. Key questions that need to be addressed in order to understand the function of CytcO at a molecular level are related to the timing of proton transfers from Glu286 to a "pump site" and the catalytic site, respectively. Here, we have investigated the temperature dependencies of the H/D kinetic-isotope effects of intramolecular proton-transfer reactions in the wild-type CytcO as well as in two structural CytcO variants, one in which proton uptake from solution is delayed and one in which proton pumping is unco	2011	9	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport Complex IV; Ion Transport; Isotopes; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Johansson	Ann-Louise
21442881		[Effect of chemical chaperones on properties of lysozyme and the reaction center protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	The influence of three chemical chaperones: glycerol, 4-hexylresorcinol, and 5-methylresorcinol on the structure, equilibrium fluctuations, and the functional activity of the hydrophilic enzyme lysozyme and the transmembrane reaction center (RC) protein from Rb. sphaeroides in a broad range of concentrations has been studied. Selected chemical chaperones are strongly different by the structure and action on hydrophilic and membrane proteins. The influence of the chemical chaperones (except methylresorcinol) on the structure, dynamics, and functional properties of lysozyme and RC protein are well described within the frames of extended models of preferential hydration and preferential interaction of protein with a chemical chaperone. A molecule of hexylresorcinol consists of a hydrophobic (alkyl radical) and a hydrophilic (aromatic nuclus) moieties. This fact provides additional regulation of functional activity of lysozyme and RC by hexylresorcinol. The influence of methylresorcinol on	2011	4	26	Biofizika	Biofizika	Glycerol; Hexanes; Hexylresorcinol; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Muramidase; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Resorcinols; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Krupianski..	Iu F
21419098	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.03.004	Energy transfer in an LH4-like light harvesting complex from the aerobic purple photosynthetic bacterium Roseobacter denitrificans.	A peripheral light-harvesting complex from the aerobic purple bacterium Roseobacter (R.) denitrificans was purified and its photophysical properties characterized. The complex contains two types of pigments, bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a and the carotenoid (Car) spheroidenone and possesses unique spectroscopic properties. It appears to lack the B850 bacteriochlorophyll a Q(y) band that is typical for similar light-harvesting complex 2 antennas. Circular dichroism and low temperature steady-state absorption spectroscopy revealed that the B850 band is present but is shifted significantly to shorter wavelengths and overlaps with the B800 band at room temperature. Such a spectral signature classifies this protein as a member of the light-harvesting complex 4 class of peripheral light-harvesting complexes, along with the previously known light-harvesting complex 4 from Rhodopseudomonas palustris. The influence of the spectral change on the light-harvesting ability was studied using steady-st	2011	7	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Circular Dichroism; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Sequence Data; Roseobacter; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Niedzwiedzki	Dariusz M
21417328	10.1021/ja2001538	Hydrogen bonding and spin density distribution in the Qb semiquinone of bacterial reaction centers and comparison with the Qa site.	In the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the primary (Q(A)) and secondary (Q(B)) electron acceptors are both ubiquinone-10, but with very different properties and functions. To investigate the protein environment that imparts these functional differences, we have applied X-band HYSCORE, a 2D pulsed EPR technique, to characterize the exchangeable protons around the semiquinone (SQ) in the Q(A) and Q(B) sites, using samples of (15)N-labeled reaction centers, with the native high spin Fe(2+) exchanged for diamagnetic Zn(2+), prepared in (1)H(2)O and (2)H(2)O solvent. The powder HYSCORE method is first validated against the orientation-selected Q-band ENDOR study of the Q(A) SQ by Flores et al. (Biophys. J.2007, 92, 671-682), with good agreement for two exchangeable protons with anisotropic hyperfine tensor components, T, both in the range 4.6-5.4 MHz. HYSCORE was then applied to the Q(B) SQ where we found proton lines corresponding to T ... 5.2, 3.7 MHz and T ..	2011	7	13	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Benzoquinones; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protons; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Martin	Erik
21410139	10.1021/bi200169y	Light-induced conformational changes in photosynthetic reaction centers: redox-regulated proton pathway near the dimer.	The influence of the hydrogen bonds on the light-induced structural changes were studied in the wild type and 11 mutants with different hydrogen bonding patterns of the primary electron donor of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Previously, using the same set of mutants at pH 8, a marked light-induced change of the local dielectric constant in the vicinity of the dimer was reported in wild type and in mutants retaining Leu L131 that correlated with the recovery kinetics of the charge-separated state [ Deshmukh et al. (2011) Biochemistry, 50, 340-348]. In this work after prolonged illumination the recovery of the oxidized dimer was found to be multiphasic in all mutants. The fraction of the slowest phase, assigned to a recovery from a conformationally altered state, was strongly pH dependent and found to be extremely long at room temperature, at pH 6, with rate constants of ...10(-3) s(-1). In wild type and in mutants with Leu at L131 the very long recovery kinetics was cou	2011	6	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Deshmukh	Sasmit S
21395289	10.1021/la104868m	Reversible binding of metal ions onto bacterial layers revealed by protonation-induced ATR-FTIR difference spectroscopy.	The ability of microorganisms to adhere to abiotic surfaces and the potentialities of attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy have been exploited to study protonation and heavy metal binding events onto bacterial surfaces. This work represents the first attempt to apply on bacteria the recently developed method known as perfusion-induced ATR-FTIR difference spectroscopy. Such a technique allows measurement of even slight changes in the infrared spectrum of the sample, deposited as a thin layer on an ATR crystal, while an aqueous solution is perfused over its surface. Solutions at different pH have been used for inducing protonation/deprotonation of functional groups lying on the surface of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells, chosen as a model system. The interaction of Ni(2+) with surface protonable groups of this microorganism has been investigated with a double-difference approach exploiting competition between nickel cations and protons. Protonation	2011	7	13	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ions; Nickel; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Giotta	Livia
21384836	10.1021/jp111680p	Thin film voltammetry of wild type and mutant reaction center proteins from photosynthetic bacteria.	Photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) convert light into electrical potential via a series of electron transfers between protein-bound, redox-active cofactors. Direct voltammetry was used to characterize the RC protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and mutants with focus on the primary electron donor (P) cofactor. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and square wave voltammetry (SWV) of lipid and polyion films of RCs revealed similar chemically irreversible processes, and starting, switching, or preconditioning potential of -0.15 V was required to observe a well-defined P/P(+) oxidation peak at ...0.95 V versus normal hydrogen electrode. An irreversible chemical reaction following voltammetric oxidation led to peak decreases upon multiple scans. Mutant RCs with site-directed amino acid modifications in the vicinity of P displayed shifts of oxidation peak potential correlated with those reported from redox titrations. These studies illustrate the utility of thin film voltammetry in characterizing redo	2011	7	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carbon; Dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine; Electrochemistry; Electrodes; Graphite; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zhang	Yun
21375274	10.1021/bi1017478	Energetics for oxidation of a bound manganese cofactor in modified bacterial reaction centers.	The energetics of a Mn cofactor bound to modified reaction centers were determined, including the oxidation/reduction midpoint potential and free energy differences for electron transfer. To determine these properties, a series of mutants of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were designed that have a metal-ion binding site that binds Mn2+ with a dissociation constant of 1 ..M at pH 9.0 (Thielges et al. (2005) Biochemistry 44, 7389-7394). In addition to the Mn binding site, each mutant had changes near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P, that resulted in altered P/P+ oxidation/reduction midpoint potentials, which ranged from 480 mV to above 800 mV compared to 505 mV for wild type. The bound Mn2+ is redox active and after light excitation can rapidly reduce the oxidized primary electron donor, P+. The extent of P+ reduction was found to systematically range from a full reduction in the mutants with high P/P+ midpoint potentials to no reduction in the mutant with a potential comparable to wild type. 	2011	6	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Manganese; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	K..lm..n	L
21366273	10.1021/bi101667e	The accumulation of the light-harvesting 2 complex during remodeling of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides intracytoplasmic membrane results in a slowing of the electron transfer turnover rate of photochemical reaction centers.	A functional proteomic analysis of the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) development process was performed in Rhodobacter sphaeroides during adaptation from high-intensity illumination to indirect diffuse light. This initiated an accelerated synthesis of the peripheral light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complex relative to that of LH1-reaction center (RC) core particles. After 11 days, ICM vesicles (chromatophores) and membrane invagination sites were isolated by rate-zone sedimentation and subjected to clear native gel electrophoresis. Proteomic analysis of gel bands containing the RC-LH1 and -LH2 complexes from digitonin-solubilized chromatophores revealed high levels of comigrating electron transfer enzymes, transport proteins, and membrane assembly factors relative to their equivalent gel bands from cells undergoing adaptation to direct low-level illumination. The GroEL chaperonin accounted for &gt;65% of the spectral counts in the RC-LH1 band from membrane invagination sites, which together w	2011	8	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Electron Transport; Fluorescence; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Woronowicz	Kamil
21344856	10.1021/bi102002v	Alternative initial proton acceptors for the D pathway of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase.	To characterize protein structures that control proton uptake, we assayed forms of cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) containing a carboxyl or a thiol group in line with the initial, internal waters of the D pathway for proton transfer in the presence and absence of subunit III. Subunit III provides approximately half of the protein surrounding the entry region of the D pathway. The N139D/D132N mutant contains a carboxyl group 6 .. within the D pathway and lacks the normal, surface-exposed proton acceptor, Asp-132. With subunit III, the steady-state activity of this mutant is slow, but once subunit III is removed, its activity is the same as that of wild-type CcO lacking subunit III (...1800 H+/s). Thus, a carboxyl group...25% within the pathway enhances proton uptake even though the carboxyl has no direct contact with bulk solvent. Protons from solvent apparently move to internal Asp-139 through a short file of waters, normally blocked by subunit III. Cys-139 also supports rapid steady-state 	2011	8	4	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Aspartic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Biocatalysis; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Subunits; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Varanasi	Lakshman
21334999	10.1016/j.bbabio.2011.02.005	Functional effects of mutations in cytochrome c oxidase related to prostate cancer.	A number of missense mutations in subunit I of cytochrome c oxidase (CytcO) have previously been linked to prostate cancer (Petros et al., 2005). To investigate the effects of these mutations at the molecular level, in the present study we prepared four different structural variants of the bacterial Rhodobacter sphaeroides CytcO (cytochrome aa(3)), each carrying one amino-acid residue replacement corresponding to the following substitutions identified in the above-mentioned study: Asn11Ser, Ala122Thr, Ala341Ser and Val380Ile (residues Asn25, Ser168, Ala384 and Val423 in the R. sphaeroides oxidase). This bacterial CytcO displays essentially the same structural and functional characteristics as those of the mitochondrial counterpart. We investigated the overall activity, proton pumping and internal electron- and proton-transfer reactions in the structural variants. The results show that the turnover activities of the mutant CytcOs were reduced by at most a factor of two. All variants pum	2011	11	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Electron Transport Complex IV; Humans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Male; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Prostatic Neoplasms; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Namslauer	Ida
21295582	10.1016/j.jmb.2011.01.055	Features of Rhodobacter sphaeroides ChrR required for stimuli to promote the dissociation of ..(E)/ChrR complexes.	In the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a transcriptional response to the reactive oxygen species singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) is mediated by ChrR, a zinc metalloprotein that binds to and inhibits the activity of the alternative .. factor ..(E). We provide evidence that (1)O(2) promotes the dissociation of ..(E) from ChrR to activate transcription in vivo. To identify what is required for (1)O(2) to promote the dissociation of ..(E)/ChrR complexes, we analyzed the in vivo properties of variant ChrR proteins with amino acid changes in conserved residues of the C-terminal cupin-like domain (ChrR-CLD). We found that (1)O(2) was unable to promote the detectable dissociation of ..(E)/ChrR complexes when the ChrR-CLD zinc ligands (His141, His143, Glu147, and His177) were substituted with alanine, even though individual substitutions caused a 2-fold to 10-fold decrease in zinc affinity for this domain relative to that for wild-type ChrR (K(d)...4.6..10(-)(10)..M). We conclude tha	2011	5	12	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Coenzymes; Gene Expression Regulation; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutant Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Zinc	Greenwell	Roger
21283116	10.1038/nrmicro2505	Signal processing in complex chemotaxis pathways.	Bacteria use chemotaxis to migrate towards environments that are better for growth. Chemoreceptors detect changes in attractant levels and signal through two-component systems to control swimming direction. This basic pathway is conserved across all chemotactic bacteria and archaea; however, recent work combining systems biology and genome sequencing has started to elucidate the additional complexity of the process in many bacterial species. This article focuses on one of the best understood complex networks, which is found in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and integrates sensory data about the external environment and the metabolic state of the cell to produce a balanced response at the flagellar motor.	2011	4	20	Nat Rev Microbiol	Nature reviews. Microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Porter	Steven L
21249136	10.1371/journal.pone.0015972	Unusual regulation of a leaderless operon involved in the catabolism of dimethylsulfoniopropionate in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 is a widely studied bacterium that has recently been shown to cleave the abundant marine anti-stress molecule dimethylsulfoniopropionate (DMSP) into acrylate plus gaseous dimethyl sulfide. It does so by using a lyase encoded by dddL, the promoter-distal gene of a three-gene operon, acuR-acuI-dddL. Transcription of the operon was enhanced when cells were pre-grown with the substrate DMSP, but this induction is indirect, and requires the conversion of DMSP to the product acrylate, the bona fide co-inducer. This regulation is mediated by the product of the promoter-proximal gene acuR, a transcriptional regulator in the TetR family. AcuR represses the operon in the absence of acrylate, but this is relieved by the presence of the co-inducer. Another unusual regulatory feature is that the acuR-acuI-dddL mRNA transcript is leaderless, such that acuR lacks a Shine-Dalgarno ribosomal binding site and 5'-UTR, and is translated at a lower level compared to the	2011	8	2	PLoS One	PloS one	Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Metabolism; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfides; Sulfonium Compounds; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Sullivan	Matthew J
21235482	10.2174/092986611795222722	A novel rhodobacter sphaeroides expression system for real-time evaluation of heterologous protein expression levels.	Heterologous protein expression levels can not be evaluated in real-time by experimental procedures commonly used for most expression systems during host cell culture. Rb. sphaeroides has provided an ideal system for studying both photosynthesis and membrane development and exhibited potential as a novel expression system. We constructed the puc1BA and puc2BA mutant strain Rb. sphaeroides CQU68 and used it as a novel expression system to heterologously express proteins fused to ..-subunit of light-harvesting 2 complexes (LH2). The presence of LH2 with ..-subunit fusion proteins was spectrally detected by the LH2 typical absorption at ~800 nm and ~850 nm, and the formation of these complexes were further confirmed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. The expression levels of heterologous protein measured by SDS-PAGE and Western blot turned out to be higher as the typical spectral peak heights increase. These findings suggested that the production of the heterologous protein could be r	2011	9	19	Protein Pept Lett	Protein and peptide letters	Absorption; Bacterial Proteins; Cells, Cultured; Gene Expression; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Operon; Protein Engineering; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Zhao	Zhiping
21217797	10.1139/w10-099	Bacterial genome chimaerism and the origin of mitochondria.	Many studies have sought to determine the origin and evolution of mitochondria. Although the Alphaproteobacteria are thought to be the closest relatives of the mitochondrial progenitor, there is dispute as to what its particular sister group is. Some have argued that mitochondria originated from ancestors of the order Rickettsiales, or more specifically of the Rickettsiaceae family, while others believe that ancestors of the family Rhodospirillaceae are also equally likely the progenitors. To resolve some of these disputes, sequence similarity searches and phylogenetic analyses were performed against mitochondria-related proteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The 86 common matches of 5 Alphaproteobacteria (Rickettsia prowazekii, Rhodospirillum rubrum, Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Ochrobactrum anthropi) to yeast mitochondrial proteins were distributed fairly evenly among the 5 species when sorted by highest identity or score. Moreover, exploratory phylogenetic	2011	6	23	Can J Microbiol	Canadian journal of microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Biological Evolution; Eukaryota; Genome, Bacterial; Mitochondria; Mitochondrial Proteins; Phylogeny; Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Abhishek	Ankur
21208007	10.1021/ac102097u	Evaluation of a semipolar solvent system as a step toward heteronuclear multidimensional NMR-based metabolomics for 13C-labeled bacteria, plants, and animals.	Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has become a key technology in metabolomics, with the use of stable isotope labeling and advanced heteronuclear multidimensional NMR techniques. In this paper, we focus on the evaluation of extraction solvents to improve NMR-based methodologies for metabolomics. Line broadening is a serious barrier to detecting signals and the annotation of metabolites using multidimensional NMR. We evaluated a series of NMR solvents for easy and versatile single-step extraction using the (13)C-labeled photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which shows pronounced broadening of NMR signals. The performance of each extraction solvent was judged using 2D (1)H-(13)C heteronuclear single quantum coherence (HSQC) spectra, considering three metrics: (1) distribution of the line width at half height, (2) number of observed signals, and (3) the total observed signal intensity. Considering the total rank values for the three metrics, we chose methanol-d(4) (MeOD) as a 	2011	5	17	Anal Chem	Analytical chemistry	Animals; Arabidopsis; Bombyx; Carbon Isotopes; Escherichia coli; Female; Metabolomics; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Populus; Rhodobacter; Solvents	Sekiyama	Yasuyo
21205904	10.1073/pnas.1012846108	Crystallographic and online spectral evidence for role of conformational change and conserved water in cytochrome oxidase proton pump.	Crystal structures in both oxidized and reduced forms are reported for two bacterial cytochrome c oxidase mutants that define the D and K proton paths, showing conformational change in response to reduction and the loss of strategic waters that can account for inhibition of proton transfer. In the oxidized state both mutants of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides enzyme, D132A and K362M, show overall structures similar to wild type, indicating no long-range effects of mutation. In the reduced state, the mutants show an altered conformation similar to that seen in reduced wild type, confirming this reproducible, reversible response to reduction. In the strongly inhibited D132A mutant, positions of residues and waters in the D pathway are unaffected except in the entry region close to the mutation, where a chloride ion replaces the missing carboxyl and a 2-.. shift in N207 results in loss of its associated water. In K362M, the methionine occupies the same position as the original lysine, but K36	2011	4	26	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Water	Liu	Jian
21198648	10.1111/j.1751-1097.2010.00885.x	Light-generated paramagnetic intermediates in BLUF domains.	Blue-light sensitive photoreceptory BLUF domains are flavoproteins, which regulate various, mostly stress-related processes in bacteria and eukaryotes. The photoreactivity of the flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) cofactor in three BLUF domains from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 and Escherichia coli have been studied at low temperature using time-resolved electron paramagnetic resonance. Photoinduced flavin triplet states and radical-pair species have been detected on a microsecond time scale. Differences in the electronic structures of the FAD cofactors as reflected by altered zero-field splitting parameters of the triplet states could be correlated with changes in the amino-acid composition of the various BLUF domains' cofactor binding pockets. For the generation of the light-induced, spin-correlated radical-pair species in the BLUF domain from Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, a tyrosine residue near the flavin's isoalloxazine moiety plays a critical role.	2011	9	15	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electrons; Escherichia coli; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Free Radicals; Light; Photochemical Processes; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis; Tyrosine	Weber	Stefan
21061002	10.1007/s00216-010-4325-0	Ubiquinol formation in isolated photosynthetic reaction centres monitored by time-resolved differential FTIR in combination with 2D correlation spectroscopy and multivariate curve resolution.	Two-dimensional correlation analysis was carried out in combination with multivariate curve resolution-alternating least squares (MCR-ALS) to analyse time-resolved infrared (IR) difference spectra probing photoinduced ubiquinol formation in detergent-isolated reaction centres from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The dynamic 2D IR correlation spectra have not only allowed the determination of the concomitance or non-concomitance of different chemical events through known marker bands but also have helped identify new vibrational bands related to the complex series of photochemical and redox reactions. In particular, a strong positive band located at 1565 cm..... was found to be synchronous with the process of ubiquinol formation. In addition, a tailored MCR-ALS analysis was performed using a priori chemical knowledge of the system, in particular including the pure spectrum of one species obtained from an external measurement. Enhancing the MCR-ALS performance in this way in time-dependent proc	2011	5	31	Anal Bioanal Chem	Analytical and bioanalytical chemistry	Kinetics; Models, Chemical; Multivariate Analysis; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Spectrum Analysis; Ubiquinone	Mezzetti	Alberto
20544803	10.1002/jemt.20889	Effects of ethanol, formaldehyde, and gentle heat fixation in confocal resonance Raman microscopy of purple nonsulfur bacteria.	Resonance Raman microscopy is well suited to examine living bacterial samples without further preparation. Therefore, comparatively little thought has been given to its compatibility with common fixation methods. However, fixation of cell samples is a very important tool in the microbiological sciences, allowing the preservation of samples in a specific condition for further examination, future measurements, transport, or later reference. We examined the effects of three common fixatives-ethanol, formaldehyde solution, and gentle heat--on the resonant Raman spectrum of three generic bacteria species, Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM 158(T), Rhodopseudomonas palustris DSM 123(T), and Rhodospirillum rubrum DSM 467(T), holding carotenoid- and heme-chromophores in confocal Raman microscopy. In addition, we analyzed the effect of poly-L-lysine coating of microscope slides, widely used for mounting biological and medical samples, on subsequent confocal Raman measurements of native and fixed sampl	2011	5	3	Microsc Res Tech	Microscopy research and technique	Ethanol; Fixatives; Formaldehyde; Hot Temperature; Microscopy, Confocal; Rhodospirillaceae; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Tissue Fixation	Kniggendorf	Ann-Kathrin
25427486	10.1016/j.msec.2012.10.031	Photosynthetic reaction centers/ITO hybrid nanostructure.	Photosynthetic reaction center proteins purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides purple bacterium were deposited on the surface of indium tin oxide (ITO), a transparent conductive oxide, and the photochemical/-physical properties of the composite were investigated. The kinetics of the light induced absorption change indicated that the RC was active in the composite and there was an interaction between the protein cofactors and the ITO. The electrochromic response of the bacteriopheophytine absorption at 771 nm showed an increased electric field perturbation around this chromophore on the surface of ITO compared to the one measured in solution. This absorption change is associated with the charge-compensating relaxation events inside the protein. Similar life time, but smaller magnitude of this absorption change was measured on the surface of borosilicate glass. The light induced change in the conductivity of the composite as a function of the concentration showed the typical sigmoid satur	2015	7	24	Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl	Materials science &amp; engineering. C, Materials for biological applications	Electric Conductivity; Kinetics; Light; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Nanostructures; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tin Compounds	Szab..	Tibor
23283234	10.1016/j.bpj.2012.10.030	Structural implications of hydrogen-bond energetics in membrane proteins revealed by high-pressure spectroscopy.	The light-harvesting 1 (LH1) integral membrane complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides provides a convenient model system in which to examine the poorly understood role of hydrogen bonds (H-bonds) as stabilizing factors in membrane protein complexes. We used noncovalently bound arrays of bacteriochlorophyll chromophores within native and genetically modified variants of LH1 complexes to monitor local changes in the chromophore binding sites induced by externally applied hydrostatic pressure. Whereas membrane-bound complexes demonstrated very high resilience to pressures reaching 2.1 GPa, characteristic discontinuous shifts and broadenings of the absorption spectra were observed around 1 GPa for detergent-solubilized proteins, in similarity to those observed when specific (.. or ..) H-bonds between the chromophores and the surrounding protein were selectively removed by mutagenesis. These pressure effects, which were reversible upon decompression, allowed us to estimate the rupture energies 	2013	7	2	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pressure; Protein Conformation; Spectrum Analysis; Structure-Activity Relationship	Freiberg	Arvi
23274960	10.1007/s00253-012-4653-4	Activity and characterization of mixed organic compounds extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides as alternative materials to serum for mammalian cell growth.	Photosynthetic microorganisms produce relatively large amounts of physiologically active materials which stimulate the physiological activity of other organisms. In this study, mammalian HeLa cells were cultured in different culture media which were Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM) with newborn calf serum (NCS), and DMEM including different types of physiologically activating compounds (PACs) extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides grown under various culture conditions. R. sphaeroides was grown under the following five different culture conditions: anaerobically in the light, anaerobically in the dark and treated with dimethyl sulfoxide, aerobically in the dark for 48 h, in the light for 48 h, and in the light for 24 h and changed after previous culturing in the dark for 24 h. The growth of HeLa cell was measured by cell counting using a hemocytometer, and the fluorescent intensities of cellular lysosomes were measured to check the level of cellular stress caused by adding PACs.	2014	4	25	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Cell Culture Techniques; Cell Proliferation; Culture Media, Serum-Free; Epithelial Cells; HeLa Cells; Humans; Lysosomes; Organic Chemicals; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Hyun Jeong
23222542	10.1038/nature11744	Crystallographic snapshot of cellulose synthesis and membrane translocation.	Cellulose, the most abundant biological macromolecule, is an extracellular, linear polymer of glucose molecules. It represents an essential component of plant cell walls but is also found in algae and bacteria. In bacteria, cellulose production frequently correlates with the formation of biofilms, a sessile, multicellular growth form. Cellulose synthesis and transport across the inner bacterial membrane is mediated by a complex of the membrane-integrated catalytic BcsA subunit and the membrane-anchored, periplasmic BcsB protein. Here we present the crystal structure of a complex of BcsA and BcsB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing a translocating polysaccharide. The structure of the BcsA-BcsB translocation intermediate reveals the architecture of the cellulose synthase, demonstrates how BcsA forms a cellulose-conducting channel, and suggests a model for the coupling of cellulose synthesis and translocation in which the nascent polysaccharide is extended by one glucose molecule at a	2013	2	26	Nature	Nature	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Biocatalysis; Biological Transport; Catalytic Domain; Cell Membrane; Cellulose; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cyclic GMP; Enzyme Activation; Models, Molecular; Multiprotein Complexes; Polysaccharides; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter	Morgan	Jacob L W
23209298	10.1074/jbc.M112.397521	Effect of mutations of arginine 94 on proton pumping, electron transfer, and superoxide anion generation in cytochrome b of the bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Proton transfer involving internal water molecules that provide hydrogen bonds and facilitate proton diffusion has been identified in some membrane proteins. Arg-94 in cytochrome b of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides bc(1) complex is fully conserved and is hydrogen-bonded to the heme propionate and a chain of water molecules. To further elucidate the role of Arg-94, we generated the mutations R94A, R94D, and R94N. The wild-type and mutant bc(1) complexes were purified and then characterized. The results show that substitution of Arg-94 decreased electron transfer activity and proton pumping capability and increased O(2)(.) production, suggesting the importance of Arg-94 in the catalytic mechanism of the bc(1) complex in R. sphaeroides. This also suggests that the transport of H(+), O(2), and O(2)(.) in the bc(1) complex may occur by the same pathway.	2013	3	26	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Arginine; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Electron Transport Complex III; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qu	Yuan-Gang
23209255	10.1128/JB.01214-12	Revised sequence and annotation of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 genome.	The DNA sequences of chromosomes I and II of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 have been revised, and the annotation of the entire genomic sequence, including both chromosomes and the five plasmids, has been updated. Errors in the originally published sequence have been corrected, and ~11% of the coding regions in the original sequence have been affected by the revised annotation.	2013	2	12	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Chromosomes, Bacterial; DNA, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Annotation; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Kontur	Wayne S
23201476	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.11.008	Structural analysis of cytochrome bc1 complexes: implications to the mechanism of function.	The cytochrome bc1 complex (bc1) is the mid-segment of the cellular respiratory chain of mitochondria and many aerobic prokaryotic organisms; it is also part of the photosynthetic apparatus of non-oxygenic purple bacteria. The bc1 complex catalyzes the reaction of transferring electrons from the low potential substrate ubiquinol to high potential cytochrome c. Concomitantly, bc1 translocates protons across the membrane, contributing to the proton-motive force essential for a variety of cellular activities such as ATP synthesis. Structural investigations of bc1 have been exceedingly successful, yielding atomic resolution structures of bc1 from various organisms and trapped in different reaction intermediates. These structures have confirmed and unified results of decades of experiments and have contributed to our understanding of the mechanism of bc1 functions as well as its inactivation by respiratory inhibitors. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Respiratory complex III	2013	12	4	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bifurcated electron flow; Bos taurus bc(1); Btbc(1); CA; CL; Control of ISP domain movement; Crystal structure; Cytochrome bc(1) complex; ET; Gallus gallus bc(1); Ggbc(1); ISC; ISP; ISP-ED; MPP; Mechanism of ubiquinol oxidation; Mtbc(1); NCS; Non-crystallographic symmetry; PC; PDB; PE; PI; Q; Q(N); Q(P); QH(2); SC; Scbc(1); TM; b(H); b(L); bc(1); bc(1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae; cardiolipin; complex III or ubiquinol cytochrome c oxidoreductase or cytochrome bc(1); contact area; electron transfer; extrinsic domain of ISP; from Rhodobacter sphaeroides; high-potential heme or b(562); iron...sulfur cluster; iron...sulfur protein; low-potential heme or b(566); mitochondrial bc(1); mitochondrial processing peptidase; phosphatidylcholine; phosphatidylethanolamine; phosphatidylinositol; protein data bank; rms deviation; root-mean-square deviation; surface complementarity; transmembrane; ubiquinol; ubiquinol oxidation,Rsbc(1); ubiquinone; ubiquinone reduction; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Metals; Models, Molecular; Phospholipids; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Substrate Specificity	Xia	Di
23199926	10.1016/j.bpj.2012.09.027	Protein dielectric environment modulates the electron-transfer pathway in photosynthetic reaction centers.	The replacement of tyrosine by aspartic acid at position M210 in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides results in the generation of a fast charge recombination pathway that is not observed in the wild-type. Apparently, the initially formed charge-separated state (cation of the special pair, P, and anion of the A-side bacteriopheophytin, H(A)) can decay rapidly via recombination through the neighboring bacteriochlorophyll (B(A)) soon after formation. The charge-separated state then relaxes over tens of picoseconds and recombination slows to the hundreds-of-picoseconds or nanosecond timescale. This dielectric relaxation results in a time-dependent blue shift of B(A)(-) absorption, which can be monitored using transient absorbance measurements. Protein dynamics also appear to modulate the electron transfer between H(A) and the next electron carrier, Q(A) (a ubiquinone). The kinetics of this reaction are complex in the mutant, requiring two kinetic terms, and the sp	2013	5	20	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Amino Acid Sequence; Aspartic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation, Missense; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Ubiquinone	Guo	Zhi
23184403	10.1007/s11120-012-9786-x	Comparative ENDOR study at 34 GHz of the triplet state of the primary donor in bacterial reaction centers of Rb. sphaeroides and Bl. viridis.	The primary electron donor (P) in the photosynthetic bacterial reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Blastochloris viridis consists of a dimer of bacteriochlorophyll a and b cofactors, respectively. Its photoexcited triplet state in frozen solution has been investigated by time resolved ENDOR spectroscopy at 34 GHz. The observed ENDOR spectra for (3)P865 and (3)P960 are essentially the same, indicating very similar spin density distributions. Exceptions are the ethylidene groups unique to the bacteriochlorophyll b dimer in (3)P960. Strikingly, the observed hyperfine coupling constants of the ethylidene groups are larger than in the monomer, which speaks for an asymmetrically delocalized wave function over both monomer halves in the dimer. The latter observation corroborates previous findings of the spin density in the radical cation states P 865 (...+) (Lendzian et al. in Biochim Biophys Acta 1183:139-160, 1993) and P 960 (...+) (Lendzian et al. in Chem Phys Lett 148:377-385, 	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Marchanka	Aliaksandr
23179614	10.1007/s00253-012-4516-z	Compensation of the enantioselectivity-activity trade-off in the directed evolution of an esterase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides by site-directed saturation mutagenesis.	Despite directed evolution being a practical and efficient method of improving the properties of enzymes, a trade-off between the targeted property and other essential properties often exists which hinders the efficiency of directed evolution. In our previous work, mutant CVH of an esterase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with high enantioselectivity was obtained by directed evolution, unfortunately its activity cannot catch another mutant YH. To compensate the trade-off of mutant CVH, site-directed saturation mutagenesis was conducted on four residues, three (Asn62, Met121, and Leu145) were hot spots determined from directed evolution, and one (Tyr27) was introduced to make up the large distance between a mutation (Asn62) and the substrate. A new mutant (HMVY) with high enantioselectivity and comparable activity to YH was obtained. According to the kinetic analysis and molecular dynamics simulations, it was understood that the high enantioselectivity and poor activity of mutant CVH was c	2013	9	6	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	DNA Mutational Analysis; Directed Molecular Evolution; Esterases; Kinetics; Mandelic Acids; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Guo	Fei
23159923	10.3390/molecules171113622	Amelioration of dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis in mice by Rhodobacter sphaeroides extract.	Bacteria can produce some compounds in response to their environment. These compounds are widely used in cosmetic and pharmaceutical applications. Some probiotics have immunomodulatory activities and modulate the symptoms of several diseases. Autoimmune diseases represent a complex group of conditions that are thought to be mediated through the development of autoreactive immunoresponses. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is common autoimmune disease that affects many individuals worldwide. Previously, we found that the extracts of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Lycogen) inhibited nitric oxide production and inducible nitric-oxide synthase expression in activated macrophages. In this study, the effect of Lycogen, a potent anti-inflammatory agent, was evaluated in mice with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. Oral administration of Lycogen reduced the expressions of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-.. and interleukin-1..) in female BABL/c mice. In addition, the increa	2013	4	5	Molecules	Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	Administration, Oral; Animals; Anti-Inflammatory Agents; Biological Products; Carotenoids; Colitis; Colon; Dextran Sulfate; Female; Interleukin-1beta; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Organ Size; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha; Weight Loss	Liu	Wen-Sheng
23144136	10.1128/AEM.02556-12	Heterologous carotenoid-biosynthetic enzymes: functional complementation and effects on carotenoid profiles in Escherichia coli.	A limited number of carotenoid pathway genes from microbial sources have been studied for analyzing the pathway complementation in the heterologous host Escherichia coli. In order to systematically investigate the functionality of carotenoid pathway enzymes in E. coli, the pathway genes of carotenogenic microorganisms (Brevibacterium linens, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter capsulatus, Rhodopirellula baltica, and Pantoea ananatis) were modified to form synthetic expression modules and then were complemented with Pantoea agglomerans pathway enzymes (CrtE, CrtB, CrtI, CrtY, and CrtZ). The carotenogenic pathway enzymes in the synthetic modules showed unusual activities when complemented with E. coli. For example, the expression of heterologous CrtEs of B. linens, C. glutamicum, and R. baltica influenced P. agglomerans CrtI to convert its substrate phytoene into a rare product-3,4,3',4'-tetradehydrolycopene-along with lycopene, which was an expected product,	2013	5	29	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Biosynthetic Pathways; Carotenoids; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Genetic Complementation Test; Metabolic Engineering; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Song	Gyu Hyeon
23130956	10.1021/jp309278y	Carotenoid charge transfer states and their role in energy transfer processes in LH1-RC complexes from aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs.	Light-harvesting complexes ensure necessary flow of excitation energy into photosynthetic reaction centers. In the present work, transient absorption measurements were performed on LH1-RC complexes isolated from two aerobic anoxygenic phototrophs (AAPs), Roseobacter sp. COL2P containing the carotenoid spheroidenone, and Erythrobacter sp. NAP1 which contains the carotenoids zeaxanthin and bacteriorubixanthinal. We show that the spectroscopic data from the LH1-RC complex of Roseobacter sp. COL2P are very similar to those previously reported for Rhodobacter sphaeroides, including the transient absorption spectrum originating from the intramolecular charge-transfer (ICT) state of spheroidenone. Although the ICT state is also populated in LH1-RC complexes of Erythrobacter sp. NAP1, its appearance is probably related to the polarity of the bacteriorubixanthinal environment rather than to the specific configuration of the carotenoid, which we hypothesize is responsible for populating the ICT 	2014	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Roseobacter; Sphingomonadaceae; Xanthophylls; Zeaxanthins	..louf	V..clav
23123515	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.10.012	Role of the -PEWY-glutamate in catalysis at the Q(o)-site of the Cyt bc(1) complex.	We re-examine the pH dependence of partial processes of ubihydroquinone (QH(2)) turnover in Glu-295 mutants in Rhodobacter sphaeroides to clarify the mechanistic role. In more crippled mutants, the bell-shaped pH profile of wildtype was replaced by dependence on a single pK at ~8.5 favoring electron transfer. Loss of the pK at 6.5 reflects a change in the rate-limiting step from the first to the second electron transfer. Over the range of pH 6-8, no major pH dependence of formation of the initial reaction complex was seen, and the rates of bypass reactions were similar to the wildtype. Occupancy of the Q(o)-site by semiquinone (SQ) was similar in the wildtype and the Glu...Trp mutant. Since heme b(L) is initially oxidized in the latter, the bifurcated reaction can still occur, allowing estimation of an empirical rate constant &lt;10(3)s(-1) for reduction of heme b(L) by SQ from the domain distal from heme b(L), a value 1000-fold smaller than that expected from distance. If the pK ~8.5 	2013	4	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Antimycin A; Biocatalysis; Electron Transport Complex III; Glutamic Acid; Heme; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydroquinones; Oxidation-Reduction; Protons	Victoria	Doreen
23104358	10.1099/ijs.0.044107-0	Falsirhodobacter halotolerans gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from dry soils of a solar saltern.	Two bacterial strains (JA744(T) and JA745) were isolated from dry soil samples collected from solar salterns at Humma, Odisha, India. Both strains were Gram-stain-negative, catalase- and oxidase-positive, motile rods. Major fatty acids in both strains included C18:1..7c, C18:0 and C16:0, while minor amounts of C10:0 3-OH, C12:0, C12:0 3-OH, C14:0 and C16:0 were also present. Diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol, an unidentified glycolipid, five unidentified lipids, an unidentified aminolipid and an unidentified phospholipid made up the polar lipids of both strains. Both strains had bacteriohopane derivatives (BHD1,2) and diploptene as major hopanoids. Mean genomic DNA G+C content was 75 .. 1 mol% and the two strains were closely related (mean DNA-DNA hybridization &gt;90%). Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that the two strains clustered with species of the genus Rhodobacter belonging to the family Rh	2013	9	25	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Composition; DNA, Bacterial; Fatty Acids; India; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Phospholipids; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacteraceae; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Soil Microbiology; Triterpenes	Subhash	Y
23103449	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.10.009	Effects of dehydration on light-induced conformational changes in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers probed by optical and differential FTIR spectroscopy.	Following light-induced electron transfer between the primary donor (P) and quinone acceptor (Q(A)) the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC) undergoes conformational relaxations which stabilize the primary charge separated state P(+)Q(A)(-). Dehydration of RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides hinders these conformational dynamics, leading to acceleration of P(+)Q(A)(-) recombination kinetics [Malferrari et al., J. Phys. Chem. B 115 (2011) 14732-14750]. To clarify the structural basis of the conformational relaxations and the involvement of bound water molecules, we analyzed light-induced P(+)Q(A)(-)/PQ(A) difference FTIR spectra of RC films at two hydration levels (relative humidity r=76% and r=11%). Dehydration reduced the amplitude of bands in the 3700-3550cm(-1) region, attributed to water molecules hydrogen bonded to the RC, previously proposed to stabilize the charge separation by dielectric screening [Iwata et al., Biochemistry 48 (2009) 1220-1229]. Other features of the FTI	2013	4	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Water	Malferrari	Marco
23057757	10.1021/bi301166u	Spectral identification of intermediates generated during the reaction of dioxygen with the wild-type and EQ(I-286) mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is frequently used to model the more complex mitochondrial enzyme. The O(2) reduction in both enzymes is generally described by a unidirectional mechanism involving the sequential formation of the ferrous-oxy complex (compound A), the P(R) state, the oxyferryl F form, and the oxidized state. In this study we investigated the reaction of dioxygen with the wild-type reduced R. sphaeroides cytochrome oxidase and the EQ(I-286) mutant using the CO flow-flash technique. Singular value decomposition and multiexponential fitting of the time-resolved optical absorption difference spectra showed that three apparent lifetimes, 18 ..s, 53 ..s, and 1.3 ms, are sufficient to fit the kinetics of the O(2) reaction of the wild-type enzyme. A comparison of the experimental intermediate spectra with the corresponding intermediate spectra of the bovine enzyme revealed that P(R) is not present in the reaction mechanism of the wild-type R. sphaeroides aa(3).	2013	1	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Transport Complex IV; Mutation; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Szundi	Istvan
23028346	10.1371/journal.pgen.1002929	Convergence of the transcriptional responses to heat shock and singlet oxygen stresses.	Cells often mount transcriptional responses and activate specific sets of genes in response to stress-inducing signals such as heat or reactive oxygen species. Transcription factors in the RpoH family of bacterial alternative .. factors usually control gene expression during a heat shock response. Interestingly, several ..-proteobacteria possess two or more paralogs of RpoH, suggesting some functional distinction. We investigated the target promoters of Rhodobacter sphaeroides RpoH(I) and RpoH(II) using genome-scale data derived from gene expression profiling and the direct interactions of each protein with DNA in vivo. We found that the RpoH(I) and RpoH(II) regulons have both distinct and overlapping gene sets. We predicted DNA sequence elements that dictate promoter recognition specificity by each RpoH paralog. We found that several bases in the highly conserved TTG in the -35 element are important for activity with both RpoH homologs; that the T-9 position, which is over-represented	2013	1	4	PLoS Genet	PLoS genetics	Base Sequence; DNA-Binding Proteins; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heat-Shock Proteins; Heat-Shock Response; Hot Temperature; Oxidative Stress; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription, Genetic	Dufour	Yann S
23023973	10.1099/mic.0.062380-0	RpoH2 sigma factor controls the photooxidative stress response in a non-photosynthetic rhizobacterium, Azospirillum brasilense Sp7.	Bacteria belonging to the Alphaproteobacteria normally harbour multiple copies of the heat shock sigma factor (known as ..(32), ..(H) or RpoH). Azospirillum brasilense, a non-photosynthetic rhizobacterium, harbours five copies of rpoH genes, one of which is an rpoH2 homologue. The genes around the rpoH2 locus in A. brasilense show synteny with that found in rhizobia. The rpoH2 of A. brasilense was able to complement the temperature-sensitive phenotype of the Escherichia coli rpoH mutant. Inactivation of rpoH2 in A. brasilense results in increased sensitivity to methylene blue and to triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC). Exposure of A. brasilense to TTC and the singlet oxygen-generating agent methylene blue induced several-fold higher expression of rpoH2. Comparison of the proteome of A. brasilense with its rpoH2 deletion mutant and with an A. brasilense strain overexpressing rpoH2 revealed chaperone GroEL, elongation factors (Ef-Tu and EF-G), peptidyl prolyl isomerase, and peptide meth	2013	5	2	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Azospirillum brasilense; Escherichia coli; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Complementation Test; Heat-Shock Proteins; Methylene Blue; Oxidants; Oxidative Stress; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Stress, Physiological; Tetrazolium Salts	Kumar	Santosh
23016832	10.1021/bi300834w	Hydrogen bonding between the Q(B) site ubisemiquinone and Ser-L223 in the bacterial reaction center: a combined spectroscopic and computational perspective.	In the Q(B) site of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction center, the donation of a hydrogen bond from the hydroxyl group of Ser-L223 to the ubisemiquinone formed after the first flash is debatable. In this study, we use a combination of spectroscopy and quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) calculations to comprehensively explore this topic. We show that ENDOR, ESEEM, and HYSCORE spectroscopic differences between mutant L223SA and the wild-type sample (WT) are negligible, indicating only minor perturbations in the ubisemiquinone spin density for the mutant sample. Qualitatively, this suggests that a strong hydrogen bond does not exist in the WT between the Ser-L223 hydroxyl group and the semiquinone O(1) atom, as removal of this hydrogen bond in the mutant should cause a significant redistribution of spin density in the semiquinone. We show quantitatively, using QM/MM calculations, that a WT model in which the Ser-L223 hydroxyl group is rotated to prevent hydroge	2013	2	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Ubiquinone	Martin	Erik
23009768	10.1021/ja3065478	Coherent picosecond exciton dynamics in a photosynthetic reaction center.	Photosynthetic reaction centers convert sunlight into a transmembrane electrochemical potential difference, providing chemical energy to almost all life on earth. Light energy is efficiently transferred through chromophore cofactors to the sites, where charge separation occurs. We applied two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy to assess the role of coherences in the photoresponse of the bacterial reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. By controlling the polarization of the laser beams, we were able to assign unambiguously the oscillatory dynamics to electronic (intermolecular) coherences. The data show that these coherences are sustained for more than 1 ps, indicating that the protein coherently retains some excitation energy on this time scale. Our finding provides a mechanism for effective delocalization of the excitations on the picosecond time scale by electronic coherence, setting the stage for efficient charge separation.	2013	3	1	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Energy Transfer; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Westenhoff	Sebastian
23001431	10.1007/s10482-012-9814-z	Albirhodobacter marinus gen. nov., sp. nov., a member of the family Rhodobacteraceae isolated from sea shore water of Visakhapatnam, India.	A novel marine, Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain N9(T), was isolated from a water sample of the sea shore at Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh (India). Strain N9(T) was found to be positive for oxidase and catalase activities. The fatty acids were found to be dominated by C(16:0), C(18:1) ..7c and summed in feature 3 (C(16:1) ..7c and/or C(16:1) ..6c). Strain N9(T) was determined to contain Q-10 as the major respiratory quinone and phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, two aminophospholipids, two phospholipids and four unidentified lipids as polar lipids. The DNA G+C content of the strain N9(T) was found to be 63 mol%. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter johrii, Pseudorhodobacter ferrugineus, Rhodobacter azotoformans, Rhodobacter ovatus and Pseudorhodobacter aquimaris were the nearest phylogenetic neighbours, with pair-wise sequence similarities of 95.43, 95.36, 94.24, 95.31, 95.60 and 94.74 %, respectively. Ph	2013	6	24	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek	Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Composition; Catalase; Cluster Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Fatty Acids; India; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidoreductases; Phylogeny; Quinones; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacteraceae; Seawater; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Nupur	Microbial Type Culture Collection and Gene Bank, Institute of Microbial Technology (CSIR), Sector 39A, Chandigarh, 160 036, India
22988895	10.1021/bm3012264	Enhancing the production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides-derived physiologically active substances using carbonic anhydrase-immobilized electrospun nanofibers.	In order to achieve continuous biocatalytic hydration of CO(2), carbonic anhydrase (CA) derived from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was immobilized on electrospun polystyrene/poly(styrene-co-maleic anhydride) (PS/PSMA) nanofibers as cross-linked enzyme aggregates (CLEA). The CA-CLEA maintained more than 94.7% of its initial activity during 60 days of storage period at 4 ..C and also retained more than 45.0% activity after 60 reuses. The capability of CA-CLEA to hydrolyze CO(2) was verified in terms of CaCO(3) precipitation. The immobilized CA induced enhanced cell growth of R. sphaeroides , which then increased the production of R. sphaeroides -derived organic substances including carotenoid, bacteriochlorophyll, porphyrin, and coenzyme Q10. Further exploitation of such nanofiber-catalyst complexes that allows environment friendly use of CO(2) is expected in a variety of research fields.	2013	6	5	Biomacromolecules	Biomacromolecules	Bacteriochlorophylls; Biocatalysis; Carbon Dioxide; Carbonic Anhydrases; Carotenoids; Enzymes, Immobilized; Maleates; Nanofibers; Polystyrenes; Porphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Park	Jae-Min
22988125	10.1073/pnas.1207067109	Regulation of bacterial photosynthesis genes by the small noncoding RNA PcrZ.	The small RNA PcrZ (photosynthesis control RNA Z) of the facultative phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is induced upon a drop of oxygen tension with similar kinetics to those of genes for components of photosynthetic complexes. High expression of PcrZ depends on PrrA, the response regulator of the PrrB/PrrA two-component system with a central role in redox regulation in R. sphaeroides. In addition the FnrL protein, an activator of some photosynthesis genes at low oxygen tension, is involved in redox-dependent expression of this small (s)RNA. Overexpression of full-length PcrZ in R. sphaeroides affects expression of a small subset of genes, most of them with a function in photosynthesis. Some mRNAs from the photosynthetic gene cluster were predicted to be putative PcrZ targets and results from an in vivo reporter system support these predictions. Our data reveal a negative effect of PcrZ on expression of its target mRNAs. Thus, PcrZ counteracts the redox-dependent induction	2012	12	31	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Northern; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Microarray Analysis; Models, Biological; Oligonucleotides; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; RNA, Bacterial; RNA-Binding Proteins; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mank	Nils N
22987200	10.1007/s00253-012-4396-2	Enhanced enantioselectivity of a carboxyl esterase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides by directed evolution.	The present work created an esterase variant from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RspE) with enhanced selectivity in hydrolytic kinetic resolutions by directed evolution. A "model" substrate, methyl mandelate, was introduced in the high-throughput screening procedure. E values of a variant CH (Asn62Cys/Leu145His) for six different esters were 10-83, which were a relative improvement compared to 2-20 for the wild type. Our subsequent crystal structure interpretation and molecular dynamics simulations helped shed light on the source of enantioselectivity modified by directed evolution. Though mutations displayed no "direct" interaction with the substrate, they were hypothesized to strengthen the intramolecular interaction in the catalytic cavity of variant. Conformation analysis revealed that the enhanced enantioselectivity of variant CH for the seven substrates applied in this study was derived from the decrease in size of the substrate binding pocket.	2013	11	18	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Amino Acid Substitution; Binding Sites; Carboxylic Ester Hydrolases; Crystallography, X-Ray; Directed Molecular Evolution; Mandelic Acids; Models, Molecular; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Mutation, Missense; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Ma	Jingbo
22985600	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.09.002	Design and use of photoactive ruthenium complexes to study electron transfer within cytochrome bc1 and from cytochrome bc1 to cytochrome c.	The cytochrome bc1 complex (ubiquinone:cytochrome c oxidoreductase) is the central integral membrane protein in the mitochondrial respiratory chain as well as the electron-transfer chains of many respiratory and photosynthetic prokaryotes. Based on X-ray crystallographic studies of cytochrome bc1, a mechanism has been proposed in which the extrinsic domain of the iron-sulfur protein first binds to cytochrome b where it accepts an electron from ubiquinol in the Qo site, and then rotates by 57.. to a position close to cytochrome c1 where it transfers an electron to cytochrome c1. This review describes the development of a ruthenium photooxidation technique to measure key electron transfer steps in cytochrome bc1, including rapid electron transfer from the iron-sulfur protein to cytochrome c1. It was discovered that this reaction is rate-limited by the rotational dynamics of the iron-sulfur protein rather than true electron transfer. A conformational linkage between the occupant of the Qo	2013	12	4	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	2,2...-bipyrazine; 2,2...-bipyridine; 2,2...:4...,4...:2...,2...-quaterpyridine; 2Fe2S; 3,3...-bipyridazine; 4,4...-dimethyl-2,2...-bipridine; Cc; CcO; Cytochrome bc(1); Cytochrome c; Electron transfer; ISP; JG144; MOAS; P(f); P(m); Q; Q(i); Q(o); Q(o) site inhibitor which fixes ISP in b state; Q(o) site inhibitor which promotes mobile state of ISP; QH(2); R. sphaeroides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rieske iron...sulfur center; Ru(2)D; Ruthenium; S-3-anilino-5-methyl-5-(4,6-difluorophenyl)-1,3-oxazolidine-2,4-dione; [Ru(bpy)(2)](2)qpy(4+); bpd; bpy; bpz; cyt bc(1); cytochrome bc(1); cytochrome c; cytochrome c oxidase; dmb; inside ubiquinone binding site; iron...sulfur protein; methoxyacrylate stilbene; outside ubiquinol binding site; qpy; ubiquinol; ubiquionone; yCc; yeast Cc; Cytochromes c; Cytochromes c1; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Models, Molecular; Organometallic Compounds; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Ruthenium; Ubiquinone	Millett	Francis
22972354	10.1271/bbb.120440	Practical removal of radioactivity from soil in Fukushima using immobilized photosynthetic bacteria combined with anaerobic digestion and lactic acid fermentation as pre-treatment.	Practical removal of radioactivity from polluted soil in Fukushima, Japan was done using a photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides SSI, immobilized in alginate beads. The beads were put in a mesh bag and soaked in which soil was suspended (5 kg of soil/10 L of tap water). The radioactivity of the broth decreased by 31% after 15 d of aerobic treatment. When lactic acid bacterial culture broth was added to the suspend broth, about 50% of the radioactivity was transferred to a suspend broth fraction consisting of small particles from the soil after 3 d of fermentation and 20 s of sedimentation. The results suggest that organic matter in the soil was decomposed by anaerobic digestion and lactic acid fermentation simultaneously, and was then transferred into the liquid as small particles. With combined treatment by anaerobic digestion and lactic acid fermentation for 5 d and immobilized bead aerobic treatment for an additional 19 d, the radioactivity of suspend broth decreased by 	2013	2	8	Biosci Biotechnol Biochem	Bioscience, biotechnology, and biochemistry	Aerobiosis; Alginates; Anaerobiosis; Biodegradation, Environmental; Cells, Immobilized; Cesium Radioisotopes; Fermentation; Fukushima Nuclear Accident; Glucuronic Acid; Hexuronic Acids; Humans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillaceae; Microspheres; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil; Soil Pollutants, Radioactive	Sasaki	Ken
22961858	10.1128/JB.00850-12	A novel component of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Fla1 flagellum is essential for motor rotation.	Here we describe a novel component essential for flagellar rotation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This protein is encoded by motF (RSP_0067), the first gene of a predicted transcriptional unit which contains two hypothetical genes. Sequence analysis indicated that MotF is a bitopic membrane-spanning protein. Protease sensitivity assays and green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions confirmed this prediction and allowed us to conclude that the C terminus of MotF is located in the periplasmic space. Wild-type cells expressing a functional GFP-MotF fusion show a single fluorescent focus per cell. The localization of this protein in different genetic backgrounds allowed us to determine that normal localization of MotF depends on the presence of FliL and MotB. Characterization of a ..motF pseudorevertant strain revealed that a single nucleotide change in motB suppresses the Mot(-) phenotype of the motF mutant. Additionally, we show that MotF also becomes dispensable when other mutant alleles of 	2013	1	14	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Antibodies, Bacterial; Bacterial Proteins; Female; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Molecular Motor Proteins; Mutation; Periplasm; Plasmids; Point Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ram..rez-Cabrera	Victor
22952791	10.1371/journal.pone.0043862	Modeling formamide denaturation of probe-target hybrids for improved microarray probe design in microbial diagnostics.	Application of high-density microarrays to the diagnostic analysis of microbial communities is challenged by the optimization of oligonucleotide probe sensitivity and specificity, as it is generally unfeasible to experimentally test thousands of probes. This study investigated the adjustment of hybridization stringency using formamide with the idea that sensitivity and specificity can be optimized during probe design if the hybridization efficiency of oligonucleotides with target and non-target molecules can be predicted as a function of formamide concentration. Sigmoidal denaturation profiles were obtained using fluorescently labeled and fragmented 16S rRNA gene amplicon of Escherichia coli as the target with increasing concentrations of formamide in the hybridization buffer. A linear free energy model (LFEM) was developed and microarray-specific nearest neighbor rules were derived. The model simulated formamide melting with a denaturant m-value that increased hybridization free energ	2013	2	19	PLoS One	PloS one	Base Sequence; Escherichia coli K12; Formamides; Models, Statistical; Nucleic Acid Denaturation; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oligonucleotide Probes; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics; Transition Temperature	Yilmaz	L Safak
22950025	10.1002/mbo3.22	Extracytoplasmic function .. factors of the widely distributed group ECF41 contain a fused regulatory domain.	Bacteria need signal transducing systems to respond to environmental changes. Next to one- and two-component systems, alternative .. factors of the extra-cytoplasmic function (ECF) protein family represent the third fundamental mechanism of bacterial signal transduction. A comprehensive classification of these proteins identified more than 40 phylogenetically distinct groups, most of which are not experimentally investigated. Here, we present the characterization of such a group with unique features, termed ECF41. Among analyzed bacterial genomes, ECF41 .. factors are widely distributed with about 400 proteins from 10 different phyla. They lack obvious anti-.. factors that typically control activity of other ECF .. factors, but their structural genes are often predicted to be cotranscribed with carboxymuconolactone decarboxylases, oxidoreductases, or epimerases based on genomic context conservation. We demonstrate for Bacillus licheniformis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides that the correspo	2012	9	11	Microbiologyopen	MicrobiologyOpen	Anti-.. factor; ECF .. factor; signal transduction	Wecke	Tina
22939604	10.1016/j.biortech.2012.07.029	Improvement of bacterial hydrogen production by ATP in mixed organic compounds extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides aerobically cultured under dark conditions.	The aim of this study was to increase the hydrogen production of recombinant Escherichia coli harboring HupSL hydrogenase by supplementing physiologically activating compounds extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides cultured under anaerobic dark condition after treating them with dimethyl sulfoxide, and the 0.5% extracts contained 4..10(-8)M ATP, which was 100-fold higher than that in the extracts from E. coli. In addition, it was found that the hydrogen production from recombinant E. coli harboring HupSL hydrogenase isolated from R. sphaeroides was doubled under anaerobic conditions when it was supplemented by the extracts from R. sphaeroides cultured aerobically in dark conditions, and this also showed consistent pattern with the increased level of HupSL hydrogenase expression. Therefore, we conclude that the mixed organic compounds extracted from R. sphaeroides have an ATP which enhances the hydrogen production by increasing the amount of HupSL hydrogenase.	2013	2	19	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Adenosine Triphosphate; Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Blotting, Western; Darkness; Escherichia coli; Hydrogen; Hydrogenase; Organic Chemicals; Recombination, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Hyun Jeong
22932930	10.1007/s10529-012-1021-5	Enhanced photosynthetic output via dichroic beam-sharing.	Microbial solar biofuels offer great promise for future sustainable food, fuels and chemicals but are limited by low productivities and a requirement for large land areas to harvest sunlight. A 71 % increase in combined photosynthetic activity was achieved by illuminating both Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Arthrospira (Spirulina) platensis from a single beam of simulated sunlight, divided using a dichroic mirror. Therefore, this technique is termed 'dichroic beam-sharing', in which the complementary action spectra of two different useful micro-organisms, belonging to green and purple groups, is exploited and allows a single beam of sunlight to be shared efficiently between separate photobioreactors. Because the action spectra of these two organisms are typical of large groups, this novel method could increase the productivity of photosynthetic micro-organisms in the production of diverse commodities.	2013	4	3	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Photobioreactors; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spirulina; Sunlight	Redwood	Mark D
22922016	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.08.004	Oxygen dependent electron transfer in the cytochrome bc(1) complex.	The effect of molecular oxygen on the electron transfer activity of the cytochrome bc(1) complex was investigated by determining the activity of the complex under the aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Molecular oxygen increases the activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides bc(1) complex up to 82%, depending on the intactness of the complex. Since oxygen enhances the reduction rate of heme b(L), but shows no effect on the reduction rate of heme b(H), the effect of oxygen in the electron transfer sequence of the cytochrome bc(1) complex is at the step of heme b(L) reduction during bifurcated oxidation of ubiquinol.	2012	12	11	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Heme; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides; Ubiquinone	Zhou	Fei
22921693	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.08.003	The dynamics of the non-heme iron in bacterial reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We investigate the dynamical properties of the non-heme iron (NHFe) in His-tagged photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers (RCs) isolated from Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. M..ssbauer spectroscopy and nuclear inelastic scattering of synchrotron radiation (NIS) were applied to monitor the arrangement and flexibility of the NHFe binding site. In His-tagged RCs, NHFe was stabilized only in a high spin ferrous state. Its hyperfine parameters (IS=1.06..0.01mm/s and QS=2.12..0.01mm/s), and Debye temperature (..(D0)~167K) are comparable to those detected for the high spin state of NHFe in non-His-tagged RCs. For the first time, pure vibrational modes characteristic of NHFe in a high spin ferrous state are revealed. The vibrational density of states (DOS) shows some maxima between 22 and 33meV, 33 and 42meV, and 53 and 60meV and a very sharp one at 44.5meV. In addition, we observe a large contribution of vibrational modes at low energies. This iron atom is directly connected to the protein m	2012	12	11	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Iron; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Mossbauer; Synchrotrons; Vibration	Ha..as	A
22913716	10.1021/bi3006847	Functional importance of a pair of conserved glutamic acid residues and of Ca(2+) binding in the cbb(3)-type oxygen reductases from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Vibrio cholerae.	The cbb(3)-type cytochrome c oxidases are members of the family of heme-copper proton pumping respiratory oxygen reductases. The structure of the cbb(3)-type oxidase from Pseudomonas stutzeri reveals that, in addition to the six redox-active metal centers (two b-type hemes, three c-type hemes, and Cu(B)), the enzyme also contains at least one Ca(2+). The calcium bridges two propionate carboxyls at the interface between the low-spin heme b and the active-site heme b(3) and, in addition, is ligated to a serine in subunit CcoO and by a glutamate in subunit CcoN. The glutamate that is ligated to Ca(2+) is one of a pair of glutamic acid residues that has previously been suggested to be part of a proton exit pathway for pumped protons. In this work, mutations of these glutamates are investigated in the cbb(3)-type oxidases from Vibrio cholerae and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Metal analysis shows that each of these wild-type enzymes contains Ca(2+). Mutations of the glutamate expected to ligate 	2012	11	19	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Calcium; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamic Acid; Heme; Mutation, Missense; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibrio cholerae	Ouyang	Hanlin
22897312	10.1063/1.4738953	Excited state dynamics in photosynthetic reaction center and light harvesting complex 1.	Key to efficient harvesting of sunlight in photosynthesis is the first energy conversion process in which electronic excitation establishes a trans-membrane charge gradient. This conversion is accomplished by the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) that is, in case of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides studied here, surrounded by light harvesting complex 1 (LH1). The RC employs six pigment molecules to initiate the conversion: four bacteriochlorophylls and two bacteriopheophytins. The excited states of these pigments interact very strongly and are simultaneously influenced by the surrounding thermal protein environment. Likewise, LH1 employs 32 bacteriochlorophylls influenced in their excited state dynamics by strong interaction between the pigments and by interaction with the protein environment. Modeling the excited state dynamics in the RC as well as in LH1 requires theoretical methods, which account for both pigment-pigment interaction and pigment-environme	2012	12	31	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Bacteriochlorophylls; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pheophytins; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Str..mpfer	Johan
22883556	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2012.06.006	Protein engineering of a thermostable polyol dehydrogenase.	The polyol dehydrogenase PDH-11300 from Deinococcus geothermalis was cloned, functionally expressed in Escherichia coli and biochemically characterized. The enzyme showed the highest activity in the oxidation of xylitol and 1,2-hexanediol and had an optimum temperature of 45 ..C. The enzyme exhibited a T............-value of 48.3 ..C. The T............ is the temperature where 50% of the initial activity remains after incubation for 1h. In order to elucidate the structural reasons contributing to thermostability, the substrate-binding loop of PDH-11300 was substituted by the loop-region of a homolog enzyme, the galactitol dehydrogenase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (PDH-158), resulting in a chimeric enzyme (PDH-loop). The substrate scope of this chimera basically represented the average of both wild-type enzymes, but surprisingly the T............ was noticeably increased by 7 ..C up to 55.3 ..C. Further mutations in the active site led to identification of residues crucial for enzyme a	2013	1	3	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	Catalytic Domain; Cloning, Molecular; Deinococcus; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Glycols; Hexanes; Hot Temperature; L-Iditol 2-Dehydrogenase; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; NAD; NADP; Protein Engineering; Substrate Specificity; Xylitol	Wulf	H
22879920	10.1371/journal.pone.0042231	Role of the Irr protein in the regulation of iron metabolism in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In Rhizobia the Irr protein is an important regulator for iron-dependent gene expression. We studied the role of the Irr homolog RSP_3179 in the photosynthetic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. While Irr had little effect on growth under iron-limiting or non-limiting conditions its deletion resulted in increased resistance to hydrogen peroxide and singlet oxygen. This correlates with an elevated expression of katE for catalase in the Irr mutant compared to the wild type under non-stress conditions. Transcriptome studies revealed that Irr affects the expression of genes for iron metabolism, but also has some influence on genes involved in stress response, citric acid cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, transport, and photosynthesis. Most genes showed higher expression levels in the wild type than in the mutant under normal growth conditions indicating an activator function of Irr. Irr was however not required to activate genes of the iron metabolism in response to iron limita	2013	1	10	PLoS One	PloS one	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA, Complementary; Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Plant; Genetic Complementation Test; Iron; Iron Deficiencies; Mutation; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Open Reading Frames; Oxidative Stress; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Reactive Oxygen Species; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stress, Physiological; Transcription Factors; Transcriptome	Peuser	Verena
22872782	10.1128/mBio.00218-12	Respiratory syncytial virus fusion protein-induced toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling is inhibited by the TLR4 antagonists Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipopolysaccharide and eritoran (E5564) and requires direct interaction with MD-2.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of infant mortality worldwide. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), a signaling receptor for structurally diverse microbe-associated molecular patterns, is activated by the RSV fusion (F) protein and by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in a CD14-dependent manner. TLR4 signaling by LPS also requires the presence of an additional protein, MD-2. Thus, it is possible that F protein-mediated TLR4 activation relies on MD-2 as well, although this hypothesis has not been formally tested. LPS-free RSV F protein was found to activate NF-..B in HEK293T transfectants that express wild-type (WT) TLR4 and CD14, but only when MD-2 was coexpressed. These findings were confirmed by measuring F-protein-induced interleukin 1.. (IL-1..) mRNA in WT versus MD-2(-/-) macrophages, where MD-2(-/-) macrophages failed to show IL-1.. expression upon F-protein treatment, in contrast to the WT. Both Rhodobacter sphaeroides LPS and synthetic E5564 (eritoran), LPS antago	2012	10	22	mBio	mBio	Animals; Cell Line; Down-Regulation; Humans; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Macrophages, Peritoneal; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Knockout; Protein Binding; Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections; Respiratory Syncytial Viruses; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Viral Fusion Proteins	Rallabhandi	Prasad
22813585	10.1134/S0006297912050045	Femtosecond charge separation in dry films of reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	In this work, the influence of the crystallographic water on electron transfer between primary donor P and acceptor B(A) was studied in reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the green bacterium Chloroflexus aurantiacus. For this purpose, time constants and oscillations of charge separation kinetics are compared between dry film RCs and RCs in glycerol-water buffer at 90 K. A common result of the drying of Rba. sphaeroides and Cfx. aurantiacus RCs is slowing of the charge separation process, decrease in amplitude of the oscillatory components of the kinetics, and the depletion of its spectrum. Thus, the major time constant of stimulated emission decay of P* bacteriochlorophyll dimer at 940 nm is increased from 1.1 psec for water-containing Rba. sphaeroides RCs to 1.9 psec for dry films of Rba. sphaeroides RCs. An analogous increase from 3.5 to 4.2 psec takes place in Cfx. aurantiacus RCs. In dry films of Rba. sphaeroides RCs, the amplitude of coheren	2012	11	23	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature; Time Factors	Yakovlev	A G
22809391	10.1021/la301888p	Porous silicon/photosynthetic reaction center hybrid nanostructure.	The purified photosynthetic reaction center protein (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 purple bacteria was bound to porous silicon microcavities (PSiMc) either through silane-glutaraldehyde (GTA) chemistry or via a noncovalent peptide cross-linker. The characteristic resonance mode in the microcavity reflectivity spectrum red shifted by several nanometers upon RC binding, indicating the protein infiltration into the porous silicon (PSi) photonic structure. Flash photolysis experiments confirmed the photochemical activity of RC after its binding to the solid substrate. The kinetic components of the intraprotein charge recombination were considerably faster (..(fast) = 14 (..9) ms, ..(slow) = 230 (..28) ms with the RC bound through the GTA cross-linker and only ..(fast) = 27 (..3) ms through peptide coating) than in solution (..(fast) = 120 (..3) ms, ..(slow) = 1387 (..2) ms), indicating the effect of the PSi surface on the light-induced electron transfer in the protein. The PSi/RC c	2012	12	18	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Animals; Electron Transport; Nanostructures; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porosity; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Silicon	Hajdu	Kata
22804837	10.1186/1556-276X-7-400	Light-harvesting bio-nanomaterial using porous silicon and photosynthetic reaction center.	 Porous silicon microcavity (PSiMc) structures were used to immobilize the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) purified from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26. Two different binding methods were compared by specular reflectance measurements. Structural characterization of PSiMc was performed by scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. The activity of the immobilized RC was checked by measuring the visible absorption spectra of the externally added electron donor, mammalian cytochrome c. PSi/RC complex was found to oxidize the cytochrome c after every saturating Xe flash, indicating the accessibility of specific surface binding sites on the immobilized RC, for the external electron donor. This new type of bio-nanomaterial is considered as an excellent model for new generation applications of silicon-based electronics and biological redox systems.	2012	10	2	Nanoscale Res Lett	Nanoscale research letters	NA	Hajdu	Kata
22750556	10.1016/j.ygeno.2012.06.009	The limitations of draft assemblies for understanding prokaryotic adaptation and evolution.	The de novo assembly of next generation sequencing data is a daunting task made more difficult by the presence of genomic repeats or transposable elements, resulting in an increasing number of genomes designated as completed draft assemblies. We created and assembled idealized sequence data sets for Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34, Caulobacter sp. K31, Gramella forsetii KT0803, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 and Bordetella bronchiseptica RB50. In addition to confirming the role of transposable elements in interrupting the assemblies, an association was found between the most fragmented regions and known or predicted genomic islands in these strains. Assembly quality was more strongly related to putative genomic island content than to any other factor examined. We believe this association indicates that draft assemblies are limiting our ability to understand the genomic context of important bacterial adaptations and that the increased effort required for finishing genomes can provide a we	2013	1	4	Genomics	Genomics	Adaptation, Biological; Bordetella bronchiseptica; Caulobacter; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Computational Biology; Computer Simulation; Cupriavidus; DNA Transposable Elements; DNA, Bacterial; Databases, Genetic; Evolution, Molecular; Genome, Bacterial; Genomic Instability; Genomic Islands; Molecular Sequence Annotation; Prokaryotic Cells; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Ricker	N
22738019	10.1021/jp305873z	N-terminal truncation does not affect the location of a conserved tryptophan in the BLUF domain of AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The flavin-binding BLUF domains are a class of blue-light receptors, and AppA is a representative of this family. Although the crystal and solution structures of several BLUF domains have already been obtained, there is a key uncertainty regarding the position of a functionally important tryptophan (Trp104 in AppA). In the first crystal structure of an N-terminally truncated BLUF domain of AppA133 (residues 17-133), Trp104 was found in close proximity to flavin (Trp(in)), whereas in a subsequent structure with an intact N-terminus AppA126 (residues 1-126), Trp104 was exposed to the solvent (Trp(out)). A recent study compared spectroscopic properties of AppA126 and AppA133 and claimed that the Trp(in) conformation is an artifact of N-terminal truncation in AppA133. In this study, we compared the flavin vibrational spectra of AppA126 and AppA133 by using near-infrared excited Raman spectroscopy. In addition, the conformations as well as the environments of Trp104 were directly monitored 	2012	12	3	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Tryptophan	Unno	Masashi
22733014	10.1007/s10863-012-9447-y	Oxidoreductase activity of chromatophores and purified cytochrome bc1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: a possible role of cardiolipin.	Osmotic shock was used as a tool to obtain cardiolipin (CL) enriched chromatophores of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. After incubation of cells in iso- and hyper-osmotic buffers both chromatophores with a physiological lipid profile (Control) and with an almost doubled amount of CL (CL enriched) were isolated. Spectroscopic properties, reaction centre (RC) and reducible cytochrome (cyt) contents in Control and CL enriched chromatophores were the same. The oxidoreductase activity was found higher for CL enriched than for Control chromatophores, raising from 60........2 to 93........3..mol cyt c s(-1) (mol total cyt c)(-1). Antymicin and myxothiazol were tested to prove that oxidoreductase activity thus measured was mainly attributable to the cyt bc ( 1 ) complex. The enzyme was then purified from BH6 strain yielding a partially delipidated and almost inactive cyt bc ( 1 ) complex, although the protein was found to maintain its structural integrity in terms of subunit composition. The ability 	2012	12	5	J Bioenerg Biomembr	Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes	Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex III; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Catucci	Lucia
26285729	10.1021/jz300505r	Probing Electron-Transfer Times in Photosynthetic Reaction Centers by Hole-Burning Spectroscopy.	A brief discussion is presented of transient hole-burned (HB) spectra (and the information that they provide) obtained for isolated reaction centers (RCs) from wild-type (WT) Rhodobacter sphaeroides, RCs containing zinc-bacteriochlorophylls (Zn-BChls), and RCs of Photosystem II (PSII) from spinach and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . The shape of the spectral density and the strength of electron-phonon coupling in bacterial RCs are discussed. We focus, however, on heterogeneity of isolated PS II RCs from spinach and, in particular, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii , site energies of active (electron acceptor) and inactive pheophytins, the nature of the primary electron donor(s), and the possibility of multiple charge-separation (CS) pathways in the isolated PSII RC. We conclude with comments on current efforts in HB spectroscopy in the area of photosynthesis and future directions in HB spectroscopy. 	2015	9	22	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	NA	Jankowiak	Ryszard
22712000	10.1016/j.ijms.2012.01.011	Evaluation of ion activation strategies and mechanisms for the gas-phase fragmentation of sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol lipids from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerol (SQDG) lipids, found in plants and photosynthetic bacteria, can substitute for phospholipids under phosphate limiting conditions. Here, various low-energy ion activation strategies have been evaluated for the identification and characterization of deprotonated SQDG lipids from a crude membrane lipid extract of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, using collision- induced dissociation - tandem mass spectrometry (CID-MS/MS) in either a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer or in a hybrid quadrupole ion trap-multipole mass spectrometer coupled with high resolution / accurate mass analysis capabilities. In the triple quadrupole instrument, using energy resolved CID-MS/MS experiments, the SQDG head group specific product ion at m/z 225 (C(6)H(9)O(7)S(-)), rather than m/z 81 (SO(3)H(-)), was determined to provide the greatest sensitivity for SQDG lipid detection, and is therefore the preferred `fingerprint' ion for the identification of this lipid class from within complex li	2021	10	21	Int J Mass Spectrom	International journal of mass spectrometry	NA	Zhang	Xi
22707709	10.1128/JB.00460-12	The C terminus of the flagellar muramidase SltF modulates the interaction with FlgJ in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Macromolecular structures such as the bacterial flagellum in Gram-negative bacteria must traverse the cell wall. Lytic transglycosylases are capable of enlarging gaps in the peptidoglycan meshwork to allow the efficient assembly of supramolecular complexes. We have previously shown that in Rhodobacter sphaeroides SltF, the flagellar muramidase, and FlgJ, a flagellar scaffold protein, are separate entities that interact in the periplasm. In this study we show that the export of SltF to the periplasm is dependent on the SecA pathway. A deletion analysis of the C-terminal portion of SltF shows that this region is required for SltF-SltF interaction. These C terminus-truncated mutants lose the capacity to interact with themselves and also bind FlgJ with higher affinity than does the wild-type protein. We propose that this region modulates the interaction with the scaffold protein FlgJ during the assembly process.	2012	10	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Adenosine Triphosphatases; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Wall; Flagella; Membrane Transport Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Muramidase; Peptidoglycan Glycosyltransferase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; SEC Translocation Channels; SecA Proteins; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Deletion	de la Mora	Javier
22704773	10.1016/j.jhazmat.2012.05.054	Oxidative stress response in atrazine-degrading bacteria exposed to atrazine.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides W16 and Acinetobacter lwoffii DNS32 which were isolated from soil in cold area subjected to a long-term atrazine application in Heilongjiang Province (China) can degrade atrazine efficiently. The investigation of their antioxidant properties will be useful for bioremediation and engineering applications of atrazine-degrading bacteria. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) from two atrazine-degrading bacteria and one non-atrazine-degrading bacterium were tested for response to the oxidative stress caused by atrazine. Atrazine produced a greater inhibition of growth in Bacillus subtilis B19. The three bacteria apparently produced two activity peaks of SOD and CAT. The results demonstrated all three bacteria possessed a mechanism for atrazine tolerance that may include controlling the cellular redox balance by producing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the subsequent scavenging of the ROS, but such response was more rapid and at lower levels in the two atr	2012	12	4	J Hazard Mater	Journal of hazardous materials	Acinetobacter; Atrazine; Bacillus subtilis; Biodegradation, Environmental; Catalase; Herbicides; Oxidative Stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil Pollutants; Superoxide Dismutase	Zhang	Ying
22694087	10.1021/jp3028758	The central role of Gln63 for the hydrogen bonding network and UV-visible spectrum of the AppA BLUF domain.	In blue-light sensing using flavin (BLUF) domains, the side-chain orientation of key residues close to the flavin chromophore is still under debate. We report quantum refinements of the wild-type AppA BLUF protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides starting from two published X-ray structures (1YRX and 2IYG) with different arrangements of the residues around the chromophore. Quantum refinement uses the same experimental X-ray raw data as conventional refinement, but includes data from quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) calculations as restraints, which is expected to be more reliable than the normally employed MM data. In addition to quantum refinement, pure QM/MM geometry optimizations are performed for the 1YRX and 2IYG structures and for five models derived therefrom. Vertical excitation energies are computed at the QM(DFT/MRCI)/MM level to assess the resulting structures. The experimental absorption maximum of the dark state of wild-type AppA is well reproduced for structures 	2013	12	13	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Crystallography, X-Ray; Dinucleoside Phosphates; Glycine; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Molecular Structure; Plastids; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Quantum Theory; Ultraviolet Rays	Hsiao	Ya-Wen
22689145	10.1007/s10863-012-9450-3	Relationship of proton motive force and the F(0)F (1)-ATPase with bio-hydrogen production activity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: effects of diphenylene iodonium, hydrogenase inhibitor, and its solvent dimethylsulphoxide.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides MDC 6521 was able to produce bio-hydrogen (H(2)) in anaerobic conditions under illumination. In this study the effects of the hydrogenase inhibitor-diphenylene iodonium (Ph(2)I) and its solvent dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) on growth characteristics and H(2) production by R. sphaeroides were investigated. The results point out the concentration dependent DMSO effect: in the presence of 10..mM DMSO H(2) yield was ~6 fold lower than that of the control. The bacterium was unable to produce H(2) in the presence of Ph(2)I. In order to examine the mediatory role of proton motive force (...p) or the F(0)F(1)-ATPase in H(2) production by R. sphaeroides, the effects of Ph(2)I and DMSO on ...p and its components (membrane potential (.....) and transmembrane pH gradient), and ATPase activity were determined. In these conditions ..... was of -98..mV and the reversed ...pH was +30..mV, resulting in ...p of -68..mV. Ph(2)I decreased ..... in concentrations of 20....M and higher; 	2012	12	5	J Bioenerg Biomembr	Journal of bioenergetics and biomembranes	Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Enzyme Inhibitors; Hydrogen; Onium Compounds; Proton-Translocating ATPases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents	Hakobyan	Lilit
22661079	10.1007/s10534-012-9561-7	Changes in morphology, cell wall composition and soluble proteome in Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells exposed to chromate.	The response of the carotenoidless Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant R26 to chromate stress under photosynthetic conditions is investigated by biochemical and spectroscopic measurements, proteomic analysis and cell imaging. Cell cultures were found able to reduce chromate within 3-4..days. Chromate induces marked changes in the cellular dimension and morphology, as revealed by atomic force microscopy, along with compositional changes in the cell wall revealed by infrared spectroscopy. These effects are accompanied by significant changes in the level of several proteins: 15 proteins were found up-regulated and 15 down-regulated. The protein content found in chromate exposed cells is in good agreement with the biochemical, spectroscopic and microscopic results. Moreover at the present stage no specific chromate-reductase could be found in the soluble proteome, indicating that detoxification of the pollutant proceeds via aspecific reductants.	2013	1	25	Biometals	Biometals : an international journal on the role of metal ions in biology, biochemistry, and medicine	Bacterial Proteins; Biodegradation, Environmental; Cell Wall; Chromates; Environmental Pollutants; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Italiano	Francesca
22659614	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.05.013	Adaptation of intracytoplasmic membranes to altered light intensity in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The model photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses a network of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl)-protein complexes embedded in spherical intracytoplasmic membranes (ICM) to collect and utilise solar energy. We studied the effects of high- and low-light growth conditions, where BChl levels increased approximately four-fold from 1.6..10(6) to 6.5..10(6) molecules per cell. Most of this extra pigment is accommodated in the proliferating ICM system, which increases from approximately 274 to 1468 vesicles per cell. Thus, 16..10(6)nm(2) of specialised membrane surface area is made available for harvesting and utilising solar energy compared to 3..10(6)nm(2) under high-light conditions. Membrane mapping using atomic force microscopy revealed closely packed dimeric and monomeric reaction centre-light harvesting 1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) complexes in high-light ICM with room only for small clusters of LH2, whereas extensive LH2-only domains form during adaptation to low light, with the LH2/RC	2013	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Cell Proliferation; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Adams	Peter G
22644477	10.1007/s11120-012-9749-2	The reaction center is the sensitive target of the mercury(II) ion in intact cells of photosynthetic bacteria.	The sensitivity of intact cells of purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type to low level (&lt;100 ..M) of mercury (Hg.....) contamination was evaluated by absorption and fluorescence spectroscopies of the bacteriochlorophyll-protein complexes. All assays related to the function of the reaction center (RC) protein (induction of the bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence, delayed fluorescence and light-induced oxidation and reduction of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer and energization of the photosynthetic membrane) showed prompt and later effects of the mercury ions. The damage expressed by decrease of the magnitude and changes of rates of the electron transfer kinetics followed complex (spatial and temporal) pattern according to the different Hg..... sensitivities of the electron transport (donor/acceptor) sites including the reduced bound and free cytochrome c... and the primary reduced quinone. In contrast to the RC, the light harvesting system and the bc... complex 	2012	9	18	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Mercury; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Asztalos	Emese
22621241	10.1111/j.1365-2958.2012.08074.x	Quantitative proteomic analysis of intracytoplasmic membrane development in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The purple phototrophic bacteria elaborate a specialized intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) system for the conversion of solar energy to ATP. Previous radiolabelling and ultrastructural experiments have shown that ICM assembly in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is initiated at indentations of the cytoplasmic membrane, termed UPB. Here, we report proteomic analyses of precursor (UPB) and mature (ICM) fractions. Qualitative data identified 387 proteins, only 43 of which were found in the ICM, reflecting its specialized role within the cell, the conversion of light into chemical energy; 236 proteins were found in the significantly more complex UPB proteome. Metabolic labelling was used to quantify the relative distribution of 173 proteins between the UPB and ICM fractions. Quantification reveals new information on assembly of the RC-LH1-PufX, ATP synthase and NAD(P)H transhydrogenase complexes, as well as showing that the UPB is enriched in enzymes for lipid, carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism, 	2012	9	28	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Proteins; Energy Metabolism; Intracellular Membranes; Light; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jackson	Philip J
22609673	10.1016/j.biortech.2012.04.011	Effect of carbon and nitrogen sources on photo-fermentative H2 production associated with nitrogenase, uptake hydrogenase activity, and PHB accumulation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131.	During photo-fermentative H(2) production, the effects of carbon and nitrogen sources on nitrogenase and hydrogenase activity, poly-..-hydroxybutyrate accumulation were investigated. In succinate/ammonium sulfate medium, H(2) was not detected for the first 6h because high ammonium concentration considerably reduced the nitrogenase activity to below 5 nmol/g-dcw/h. After 24h, 99% of the ammonium was consumed, and the nitrogenase activity increased to 296 nmol/g-dcw/h, accelerating H(2) production. In contrast, the ammonium in succinate/glutamate medium was much less, which led to rapid H(2) production in the beginning. However, H(2) evolution was repressed over time by increased ammonium. In the presence of H(2), hydrogenase activity increased with time regardless of the nitrogen source, and consequently, H(2) production was reduced. Compared with succinate, H(2) production in acetate media was severely limited due to increased pH over 9. During extended cultivation, the PHB accumulated	2012	10	5	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Acetates; Ammonium Sulfate; Carbon; Culture Media; Fermentation; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen; Hydrogenase; Hydroxybutyrates; Light; Nitrogen; Nitrogenase; Polyesters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic Acid	Kim	Mi-Sun
22608135	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2012.04.047	Phytoavailability and geospeciation of cadmium in contaminated soil remediated by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A microorganism was isolated from oil field injection water and identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides. It was used for the remediation of simulated cadmium-contaminated soil. The phytoavailability of Cd was investigated through wheat seedling method to determine the efficiency of remediation. It was found that after remediation, the accumulation of Cd in wheat roots and leaves decreased by 67% and 53%, respectively. The Cd speciation in soil was determined with Tessier extraction procedure. It was found that the total Cd content in soil did not change during the experiments, but the geo-speciation of Cd changed remarkably. Among the five fractions, the concentration of exchangeable phases decreased by 27-46% and that of the phases bound to Fe-Mn oxides increased by 22-44%. The decrease of Cd accumulation in wheat showed significant positive correlation with the decrease of exchangeable phases. It could be concluded that the remediation of R. sphaeroides was carried out through the conv	2012	10	19	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Biodegradation, Environmental; Biological Availability; Cadmium; Microbial Viability; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Seedlings; Soil; Soil Pollutants; Sulfates; Triticum; Water Microbiology	Fan	Wenhong
22586075	10.1073/pnas.1201413109	Photoprotection in a purple phototrophic bacterium mediated by oxygen-dependent alteration of carotenoid excited-state properties.	Carotenoids are known to offer protection against the potentially damaging combination of light and oxygen encountered by purple phototrophic bacteria, but the efficiency of such protection depends on the type of carotenoid. Rhodobacter sphaeroides synthesizes spheroidene as the main carotenoid under anaerobic conditions whereas, in the presence of oxygen, the enzyme spheroidene monooxygenase catalyses the incorporation of a keto group forming spheroidenone. We performed ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy on membranes containing reaction center-light-harvesting 1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) complexes and showed that when oxygen is present the incorporation of the keto group into spheroidene, forming spheroidenone, reconfigures the energy transfer pathway in the LH1, but not the LH2, antenna. The spheroidene/spheroidenone transition acts as a molecular switch that is suggested to twist spheroidenone into an s-trans configuration increasing its conjugation length and lowering the energy 	2012	8	24	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cell Membrane; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Structure; Oxygen; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	..louf	V..clav
22567913		[Study of phototrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides cell morphology of wild-type and ipt-transformant by atomic force and electron microscopy].	A comparative study of phototrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides cell morphology of wild-type and ipt-transformant was done by atomic force and electron microscopy. It was shown that transformation led to a decrease in the number or total disappearance of the flagella, as well as to changes in the structure of the outer membrane of the bacteria cell wall. On the wild-type cell surface phage-like structures were found, and in transformed cells at their places hollows were identified. This study significantly extends an understanding of the changes occurring in the ipt-transformants of phototrophic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This investigation not only confirmed earlier obtained data about the differences in the wild-type and ipt-transformant phototrophic purple bacteria cell wall, but also showed fine changes in the structure of its outer membrane.	2012	5	29	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Wall; Cytokinins; Flagella; Genotype; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Microscopy, Electron; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transformation, Bacterial	Machulin	A V
22533893	10.1186/1756-0500-5-192	Evolutionary constraints and expression analysis of gene duplications in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Gene duplication is a major force that contributes to the evolution of new metabolic functions in all organisms. Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 is a bacterium that displays a wide degree of metabolic versatility and genome complexity and therefore is a fitting model for the study of gene duplications in bacteria. A comprehensive analysis of 234 duplicate gene-pairs in R. sphaeroides was performed using structural constraint and expression analysis. The results revealed that most gene-pairs in in-paralogs are maintained under negative selection (.. ...... 0.3), but the strength of selection differed among in-paralog gene-pairs. Although in-paralogs located on different replicons are maintained under purifying selection, the duplicated genes distributed between the primary chromosome (CI) and the second chromosome (CII) are relatively less selectively constrained than the gene-pairs located within each chromosome. The mRNA expression patterns of duplicate gene-pairs were examined through 	2013	2	12	BMC Res Notes	BMC research notes	Biological Evolution; Chromosome Mapping; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Gene Duplication; Gene Expression; Gene Expression Profiling; Genes, Bacterial; Genes, Duplicate; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; RNA, Messenger; Replicon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Peters	Anne E
22529361	10.1073/pnas.1202151109	Mechanistic stoichiometry of proton translocation by cytochrome cbb3.	Cytochrome cbb(3) belongs to the superfamily of respiratory heme-copper oxidases that couple the reduction of molecular oxygen to proton translocation across the bacterial or mitochondrial membrane. The cbb(3)-type enzymes are found only in bacteria, and are both structurally and functionally the most distant from their mitochondrial counterparts. The mechanistic H(+)/e(-) stoichiometry of proton translocation in these cbb(3)-type cytochrome c oxidases has remained controversial. A stoichiometric efficiency of only one-half that of the mitochondrial aa(3)-type enzyme was recently proposed to be related to adaptation of the organism to microaerobic environments. Here, proton translocation by the Rhodobacter sphaeroides enzyme was studied using purified cytochrome cbb(3) reconstituted into liposomes. An H(+)/e(-) stoichiometry of proton translocation close to unity was observed using the oxygen pulse method, but solely in conditions in which the vast majority of the enzyme was fully redu	2012	8	13	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Bacterial Proteins; Carbonyl Cyanide m-Chlorophenyl Hydrazone; Electrochemical Techniques; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Liposomes; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Paracoccus denitrificans; Plasmids; Proton Ionophores; Proton-Motive Force; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Rauham..ki	Virve
22516686	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.04.001	Product-controlled steady-state kinetics between cytochrome aa(3) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and equine ferrocytochrome c analyzed by a novel spectrophotometric approach.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) catalyzes the reduction of molecular oxygen to water using ferrocytochrome c (cyt c(2+)) as the electron donor. In this study, the oxidation of horse cyt c(2+) by CcO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, was monitored using stopped-flow spectrophotometry. A novel analytic procedure was applied in which the spectra were deconvoluted into the reduced and oxidized forms of cyt c by a least-squares fitting method, yielding the reaction rates at various concentrations of cyt c(2+) and cyt c(3+). This allowed an analysis of the effects of cyt c(3+) on the steady-state kinetics between CcO and cyt c(2+). The results show that cyt c(3+) exhibits product inhibition by two mechanisms: competition with cyt c(2+) at the catalytic site and, in addition, an interaction at a second site which further modulates the reaction of cyt c(2+) at the catalytic site. These results are generally consistent with previous reports, indicating the reliability of the new procedure. We also find 	2013	5	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Cytochromes c; Electron Transport Complex IV; Horses; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Lin	Myat T
22496766	10.1371/journal.pone.0033791	Effects of the cryptochrome CryB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides on global gene expression in the dark or blue light or in the presence of singlet oxygen.	Several regulators are controlling the formation of the photosynthetic apparatus in the facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Among the proteins affecting photosynthesis gene expression is the blue light photoreceptor cryptochrome CryB. This study addresses the effect of CryB on global gene expression. The data reveal that CryB does not only influence photosynthesis gene expression but also genes for the non-photosynthetic energy metabolism like citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. In addition several genes involved in RNA processing and in transcriptional regulation are affected by a cryB deletion. Although CryB was shown to undergo a photocycle it does not only affect gene expression in response to blue light illumination but also in response to singlet oxygen stress conditions. While there is a large overlap in these responses, some CryB-dependent effects are specific for blue-light or photooxidative stress. In addition to protein-coding genes s	2012	8	21	PLoS One	PloS one	Biomarkers; Blotting, Northern; Cryptochromes; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidants; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidative Stress; RNA, Messenger; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen	Fr..hwirth	Sebastian
22480241	10.1021/jp302042w	Exciton band structure in bacterial peripheral light-harvesting complexes.	The variability of the exciton spectra of bacteriochlorophyll molecules in light-harvesting (LH) complexes of photosynthetic bacteria ensures the excitation energy funneling trend toward the reaction center. The decisive shift of the energies is achieved due to exciton spectra formation caused by the resonance interaction between the pigments. The possibility to resolve the upper Davydov sub-band corresponding to the B850 ring and, thus, to estimate the exciton bandwidth by analyzing the temperature dependence of the steady-state absorption spectra of the LH2 complexes is demonstrated. For this purpose a self-modeling curve resolution approach was applied for analysis of the temperature dependence of the absorption spectra of LH2 complexes from the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides and Rhodoblastus (Rbl.) acidophilus. Estimations of the intradimer resonance interaction values as follows directly from obtained estimations of the exciton bandwidths at room temperatur	2012	8	31	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Circular Dichroism; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Trinkunas	Gediminas
22465023	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.03.012	Inter-monomer electron transfer is too slow to compete with monomeric turnover in bc(1) complex.	The homodimeric bc(1) complexes are membrane proteins essential in respiration and photosynthesis. The ~11.. distance between the two b(L)-hemes of the dimer opens the possibility of electron transfer between them, but contradictory reports make such inter-monomer electron transfer controversial. We have constructed in Rhodobacter sphaeroides a heterodimeric expression system similar to those used before, in which the bc(1) complex can be mutated differentially in the two copies of cyt b to test for inter-monomer electron transfer, but found that genetic recombination by cross-over then occurs to produce wild-type homodimer. Selection pressure under photosynthetic growth always favored the homodimer over heterodimeric variants enforcing inter-monomer electron transfer, showing that the latter are not competitive. These results, together with kinetic analysis of myxothiazol titrations, demonstrate that inter-monomer electron transfer does not occur at rates competitive with monomeric tu	2013	4	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Crossing Over, Genetic; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Kinetics; Methacrylates; Microbial Viability; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Plasmids; Protein Multimerization; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thiazoles	Hong	Sangjin
22452820	10.1186/1471-2164-13-120	Comparative analysis of Mycobacterium and related Actinomycetes yields insight into the evolution of Mycobacterium tuberculosis pathogenesis.	The sequence of the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strain H37Rv has been available for over a decade, but the biology of the pathogen remains poorly understood. Genome sequences from other Mtb strains and closely related bacteria present an opportunity to apply the power of comparative genomics to understand the evolution of Mtb pathogenesis. We conducted a comparative analysis using 31 genomes from the Tuberculosis Database (TBDB.org), including 8 strains of Mtb and M. bovis, 11 additional Mycobacteria, 4 Corynebacteria, 2 Streptomyces, Rhodococcus jostii RHA1, Nocardia farcinia, Acidothermus cellulolyticus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Propionibacterium acnes, and Bifidobacterium longum. Our results highlight the functional importance of lipid metabolism and its regulation, and reveal variation between the evolutionary profiles of genes implicated in saturated and unsaturated fatty acid metabolism. It also suggests that DNA repair and molybdopterin cofactors are important in p	2012	10	29	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Actinobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Coenzymes; DNA Repair; Databases, Genetic; Evolution, Molecular; Fatty Acids; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; Lipid Metabolism; Metalloproteins; Molybdenum Cofactors; Mycobacterium; Mycobacterium tuberculosis; Phylogeny; Pteridines; RNA, Untranslated	McGuire	Abigail Manson
22450797	10.4014/jmb.1108.08009	Effects of pH and carbon sources on biohydrogen production by co-culture of Clostridium butyricum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	To improve the hydrogen yield from biological fermentation of organic wastewater, a co-culture system of dark- and photo-fermentation bacteria was investigated. In a pureculture system of the dark-fermentation bacterium Clostridium butyricum, a pH of 6.25 was found to be optimal, resulting in a hydrogen production rate of 18.7 ml-H.../l/h. On the other hand, the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides could produce the most hydrogen at 1.81 mol-H.../mol-glucose at pH 7.0. The maximum specific growth rate of R. sphaeroides was determined to be 2.93 h..... when acetic acid was used as the carbon source, a result that was significantly higher than that obtained using either glucose or a mixture of volatile fatty acids (VFAs). Acetic acid best supported R. sphaeroides cell growth but not hydrogen production. In the co-culture system with glucose, hydrogen could be steadily produced without any lag phase. There were distinguishable inflection points in a plot of accumulated hydroge	2012	7	16	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Carbon; Clostridium butyricum; Coculture Techniques; Fatty Acids, Volatile; Fermentation; Glucose; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Jung-Yeol
22443796	10.1063/1.3693019	Influence of environment induced correlated fluctuations in electronic coupling on coherent excitation energy transfer dynamics in model photosynthetic systems.	Two-dimensional photon-echo experiments indicate that excitation energy transfer between chromophores near the reaction center of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides occurs coherently with decoherence times of hundreds of femtoseconds, comparable to the energy transfer time scale in these systems. The original explanation of this observation suggested that correlated fluctuations in chromophore excitation energies, driven by large scale protein motions could result in long lived coherent energy transfer dynamics. However, no significant site energy correlation has been found in recent molecular dynamics simulations of several model light harvesting systems. Instead, there is evidence of correlated fluctuations in site energy-electronic coupling and electronic coupling-electronic coupling. The roles of these different types of correlations in excitation energy transfer dynamics are not yet thoroughly understood, though the effects of site energy correlations have	2012	10	9	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Electrons; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Huo	Pengfei
22434878	10.1093/nar/gks243	Interaction of two photoreceptors in the regulation of bacterial photosynthesis genes.	The expression of photosynthesis genes in the facultatively photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is controlled by the oxygen tension and by light quantity. Two photoreceptor proteins, AppA and CryB, have been identified in the past, which are involved in this regulation. AppA senses light by its N-terminal BLUF domain, its C-terminal part binds heme and is redox-responsive. Through its interaction to the transcriptional repressor PpsR the AppA photoreceptor controls expression of photosynthesis genes. The cryptochrome-like protein CryB was shown to affect regulation of photosynthesis genes, but the underlying signal chain remained unknown. Here we show that CryB interacts with the C-terminal domain of AppA and modulates the binding of AppA to the transcriptional repressor PpsR in a light-dependent manner. Consequently, binding of the transcription factor PpsR to its DNA target is affected by CryB. In agreement with this, all genes of the PpsR regulon showed altered expressi	2012	10	22	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Bacterial Proteins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs; Regulon; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Two-Hybrid System Techniques; Yeasts	Metz	Sebastian
22411820	10.1073/pnas.1116862109	Cofactor-specific photochemical function resolved by ultrafast spectroscopy in photosynthetic reaction center crystals.	High-resolution mapping of cofactor-specific photochemistry in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was achieved by polarization selective ultrafast spectroscopy in single crystals at cryogenic temperature. By exploiting the fixed orientation of cofactors within crystals, we isolated a single transition within the multicofactor manifold, and elucidated the site-specific photochemical functions of the cofactors associated with the symmetry-related active A and inactive B branches. Transient spectra associated with the initial excited states were found to involve a set of cofactors that differ depending upon whether the monomeric bacteriochlorophylls, BChl(A), BChl(B), or the special pair bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P, was chosen for excitation. Proceeding from these initial excited states, characteristic photochemical functions were resolved. Specifically, our measurements provide direct evidence for an alternative charge separation pathway initiated by exci	2012	5	21	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Absorption; Coenzymes; Crystallization; Kinetics; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Huang	Libai
22397753	10.1021/ja2117377	Electron spin density distribution in the special pair triplet of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 revealed by magnetic field dependence of the solid-state photo-CIDNP effect.	Photo-CIDNP (photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization) can be observed in frozen and quinone-blocked photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) as modification of magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR signal intensity under illumination. Studying the carotenoidless mutant strain R26 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we demonstrate by experiment and theory that contributions to the nuclear spin polarization from the three-spin mixing and differential decay mechanism can be separated from polarization generated by the radical pair mechanism, which is partially maintained due to differential relaxation (DR) in the singlet and triplet branch. At a magnetic field of 1.4 T, the latter contribution leads to dramatic signal enhancement of about 80,000 and dominates over the two other mechanisms. The DR mechanism encodes information on the spin density distribution in the donor triplet state. Relative peak intensities in the photo-CIDNP spectra provide a critical test for triplet spin densities compu	2012	8	2	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Electrons; Magnetic Fields; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Thamarath	Smitha Surendran
22396151	10.1007/s11120-011-9707-4	Differential assembly of polypeptides of the light-harvesting 2 complex encoded by distinct operons during acclimation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides to low light intensity.	In order to obtain an improved understanding of the assembly of the bacterial photosynthetic apparatus, we have conducted a proteomic analysis of pigment-protein complexes isolated from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides undergoing acclimation to reduced incident light intensity. Photoheterotrophically growing cells were shifted from 1,100 to 100..W/m(2) and intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) vesicles isolated over 24-h were subjected to clear native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Bands containing the LH2 and reaction center (RC)-LH1 complexes were excised and subjected to in-gel trypsin digestion followed by liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectroscopy (MS)/MS. The results revealed that the LH2 band contained distinct levels of the LH2-.. and -.. polypeptides encoded by the two puc operons. Polypeptide subunits encoded by the puc2AB operon predominated under high light and in the early stages of acclimation to low light, while after 24..h, the puc1BAC components were most 	2014	7	7	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Acclimatization; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Operon; Peptides; Pigments, Biological; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Woronowicz	Kamil
22378778	10.1074/jbc.M112.346494	PpsR, a regulator of heme and bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis, is a heme-sensing protein.	Heme-mediated regulation, presented in many biological processes, is achieved in part with proteins containing heme regulatory motif. In this study, we demonstrate that FLAG-tagged PpsR isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells contains bound heme. In vitro heme binding studies with tagless apo-PpsR show that PpsR binds heme at a near one-to-one ratio with a micromolar binding constant. Mutational and spectral assays suggest that both the second Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) and DNA binding domains of PpsR are involved in the heme binding. Furthermore, we show that heme changes the DNA binding patterns of PpsR and induces different responses of photosystem genes expression. Thus, PpsR functions as both a redox and heme sensor to coordinate the amount of heme, bacteriochlorophyll, and photosystem apoprotein synthesis thereby providing fine tune control to avoid excess free tetrapyrrole accumulation.	2012	7	17	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; DNA; DNA-Binding Proteins; Deoxyribonuclease I; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation; Heme; Iron; Ligands; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles; Tryptophan	Yin	Liang
22366029	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.02.006	The rate of Q(x)...Q(y) relaxation in bacteriochlorophylls of reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides determined by kinetics of the ultrafast carotenoid bandshift.	Transient absorption changes induced by excitation of isolated reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with 600nm laser pulses of 20fs (full width at half maximum) were monitored in the wavelength region of 420-560nm. The spectral features of the spectrum obtained are characteristic for an electrochromic band shift of the single carotenoid (Car) molecule spheroidene, which is an integral constituent of these RCs. This effect is assigned to an electrochromic bandshift of Car due to the local electric field of the dipole moment formed by electronic excitation of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) molecule(s) in the neighborhood of Car. Based on the known distances between the pigments, the monomeric BChl (B(B)) in the inactive B-branch is inferred to dominate this effect. The excitation of B(B) at 600nm leads to a transition into the S(2) state (Q(x) band), which is followed by rapid internal conversion to the S(1) state (Q(y) band), thus leading to a change of strength and orientati	2013	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paschenko	Vladimir Z
22365928	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.02.008	The site-directed mutation I(L177)H in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center affects coordination of P(A) and B(B) bacteriochlorophylls.	To explore the influence of the I(L177)H single mutation on the properties of the nearest bacteriochlorophylls (BChls), three reaction centers (RCs) bearing double mutations were constructed in the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and their properties and pigment content were compared with those of the correspondent single mutant RCs. Each pair of the mutations comprised the amino acid substitution I(L177)H and another mutation altering histidine ligand of BChl P(A) or BChl B(B). Contrary to expectations, the double mutation I(L177)H+H(L173)L does not bring about a heterodimer RC but causes a 46nm blue shift of the long-wavelength P absorbance band. The histidine L177 or a water molecule were suggested as putative ligands for P(A) in the RC I(L177)H+H(L173)L although this would imply a reorientation of the His backbone and additional rearrangements in the primary donor environment or even a repositioning of the BChl dimer. The crystal structure of the mutant I(L	2013	3	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Potentiometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Vasilieva	L G
22348475	10.1134/S000629791202006X	FTIR spectroscopy of the reaction center of Chloroflexus aurantiacus: photooxidation of the primary electron donor.	Photochemical oxidation of the primary electron donor P in reaction centers (RCs) of the filamentous anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium Chloroflexus (C.) aurantiacus was examined by light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) difference spectroscopy at 95 K in the spectral range of 4000-1200 cm(-1). The light-induced P(+)Q(A)(-)/PQ(A) IR spectrum of C. aurantiacus RCs is compared to the well-characterized FTIR difference spectrum of P photooxidation in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides R-26 RCs. The presence in the P(+)Q(A)(-)/PQ(A) FTIR spectrum of C. aurantiacus RCs of specific low-energy electronic transitions at ~2650 and ~2200 cm(-1), as well as of associated vibrational (phase-phonon) bands at 1567, 1481, and 1294-1285 cm(-1), indicates that the radical cation P(+) in these RCs has dimeric structure, with the positive charge distributed between the two coupled bacteriochlorophyll a molecules. The intensity of the P(+) absorbance band at ~1250 nm (upon chemical 	2012	9	7	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Chloroflexus; Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Temperature	Zabelin	A A
22336705	10.4161/rna.19433	The ordered processing of intervening sequences in 23S rRNA of Rhodobacter sphaeroides requires RNase J.	The essential processing of ribosomal rRNA precursors requires concerted and sequential cleavages by different endo- and exoribonucleases. Despite long lasting investigations of these processes the exact order of steps remained elusive. Many bacteria perform additional rRNA processing steps by removing intervening sequences within the 23S rRNA. This leads to disintegration of the 23S rRNA and discontinuously assembled fragments within the ribosomes. The maturation of these fragments also requires successive cleavage events by different RNases. Our study reveals that the 5'-to-3' exoribonuclease RNase J is responsible for the final 5'-end maturation of all three 23S rRNA fragments in the ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Additionally the results show that 5'- and 3'-processing steps are closely coupled: mature 5'-ends are a strict prerequisite for the final 3'-trimming of the 23S rRNA fragments.	2012	12	20	RNA Biol	RNA biology	Base Sequence; Gene Deletion; Gene Order; Introns; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Conformation; RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional; RNA, Ribosomal, 23S; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribonucleases	Rische	Tom
22329503	10.1111/j.1742-4658.2012.08520.x	An extended model for the repression of photosynthesis genes by the AppA/PpsR system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Purple bacteria derive energy from aerobic respiration or photosynthesis depending on the availability of oxygen and light. Under aerobic conditions, photosynthesis genes are specifically repressed by the PpsR protein. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the repressive action of PpsR is antagonized by the blue-light and redox-sensitive flavoprotein AppA, which sequesters PpsR under anaerobic conditions into transcriptionally inactive complexes. However, under semi-aerobic conditions, blue-light excitation of AppA causes the AppA-PpsR complexes to dissociate, again leading to a repression of photosynthesis genes. We have recently developed a simple mathematical model suggesting that this phenotype arises from the formation of a maximum in the response curve of reduced PpsR at intermediate oxygen concentrations. However, this model focused mainly on the oxygen-dependent interactions whereas light regulation was only implemented in a simplified manner. In the present study, we incorporate a more 	2012	11	19	FEBS J	The FEBS journal	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Kinetics; Light; Models, Biological; Oxidation-Reduction; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pandey	Rakesh
22324747	10.1021/jp300304r	Electron transfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers containing Zn-bacteriochlorophylls: a hole-burning study.	Nonresonant and resonant transient, photochemical hole-burned (HB) spectra are presented for primary electron donor states of a novel bacterial reaction center (Zn-RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, containing six Zn-bacteriochlorophylls (Zn-BChls). A "Zn-..-RC" in which the Zn-BChl in the bacteriopheophytin (BPhe)-binding site on the A side (H(A)) has the Zn penta-coordinated, was also studied. The fifth ligand comes from a histidine introduced by site-directed mutagenesis. Formation of the P(+)Q(A)(-) state was observed in both types of RC, although under identical experimental conditions a significantly deeper P(-) band (corresponding to the lower-energy, special pair, excitonic component) was revealed in the Zn-RC. Assuming a similar lifetime of the P(+)Q(A)(-) state, the quantum yield of P(+)Q(A)(-) formation decreased by ~60% in the Zn-..-RC (compared to the Zn-RC), as was seen in a comparison of analogous (Mg) BChl-containing wild type and ..-RCs of Rb. sphaeroides [Kirmaier et al.	2012	7	6	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Temperature; Zinc	Neupane	Bhanu
22290493	10.1038/embor.2012.2	CryB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: a unique class of cryptochromes with new cofactors.	Cryptochromes and photolyases are structurally related but have different biological functions in signalling and DNA repair. Proteobacteria and cyanobacteria harbour a new class of cryptochromes, called CryPro. We have solved the 2.7 .. structure of one of its members, cryptochrome B from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which is a regulator of photosynthesis gene expression. The structure reveals that, in addition to the photolyase-like fold, CryB contains two cofactors only conserved in the CryPro subfamily: 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityl-lumazine in the antenna-binding domain and a [4Fe-4S] cluster within the catalytic domain. The latter closely resembles the iron-sulphur cluster harbouring the large primase subunit PriL, indicating that PriL is evolutionarily related to the CryPro class of cryptochromes.	2012	7	20	EMBO Rep	EMBO reports	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cryptochromes; Crystallography, X-Ray; Deoxyribodipyrimidine Photo-Lyase; Ferrocyanides; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxidation-Reduction; Phylogeny; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Pteridines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Static Electricity	Geisselbrecht	Yann
22268655	10.1021/jp2033214	Transient absorption study of two-photon excitation mechanism in the LH2 complex from purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The mechanism of two-photon excitation of a peripheral light-harvesting complex LH2 (B800-850) from purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was explained on the basis of femtosecond transient absorption data. Fast bleaching of the B850 absorption band was measured under two-photon excitation by 1350 nm femtosecond pulses, showing fast subpicosecond arrival of excitation energy to B850 circular aggregates. Any spectral changes connected with the B800 absorption band of B800-BChl molecules were absent. A similar picture was observed under one-photon excitation of the LH2 complex by 675 nm femtosecond pulses. We believe these effects may be attributed to direct excitation of high-energy excitonic states of a B850 circular aggregate or its vibrational manifold in accordance with the model of Abe [Chem. Phys. 2001, 264, 355-363].	2012	6	4	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Stepanenko	Ilya
22264799	10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.001	Exploring the in situ accessibility of small subunit ribosomal RNA of members of the domains Bacteria and Eukarya to oligonucleotide probes.	The principle that the small subunit ribosomal RNA (ssu rRNA) is generally accessible to oligonucleotide probes designed to have high thermodynamic affinity was tested with Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Bacillus subtilis, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Fluorescein-labeled probes, designed to have ..G(overall)..=-14..1 and to avoid the potential of nucleobase-specific quenching, were used to target 20 randomly selected sites in each organism. A site was considered accessible if probe brightness was at least 10 times the background signal. With 30-h hybridizations, 71 out of 80 target sites passed the accessibility criterion. Three additional sites were demonstrated to be accessible with either longer hybridizations, which seemed to have a negative effect on some probes, or the addition of formamide to the hybridization buffer. The remaining 6 sites were demonstrated to be accessible by changing the fluorophore to Cy5, slightly modifying probe lengths, using dual-	2013	5	3	Syst Appl Microbiol	Systematic and applied microbiology	Bacillus subtilis; In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence; Oligonucleotide Probes; RNA, Ribosomal; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Specimen Handling; Stenotrophomonas maltophilia; Time Factors	Okten	Hatice E
22248670	10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.01.003	The roles of Rhodobacter sphaeroides copper chaperones PCu(A)C and Sco (PrrC) in the assembly of the copper centers of the aa(3)-type and the cbb(3)-type cytochrome c oxidases.	The .. proteobacter Rhodobacter sphaeroides accumulates two cytochrome c oxidases (CcO) in its cytoplasmic membrane during aerobic growth: a mitochondrial-like aa(3)-type CcO containing a di-copper Cu(A) center and mono-copper Cu(B), plus a cbb(3)-type CcO that contains Cu(B) but lacks Cu(A). Three copper chaperones are located in the periplasm of R. sphaeroides, PCu(A)C, PrrC (Sco) and Cox11. Cox11 is required to assemble Cu(B) of the aa(3)-type but not the cbb(3)-type CcO. PrrC is homologous to mitochondrial Sco1; Sco proteins are implicated in Cu(A) assembly in mitochondria and bacteria, and with Cu(B) assembly of the cbb(3)-type CcO. PCu(A)C is present in many bacteria, but not mitochondria. PCu(A)C of Thermus thermophilus metallates a Cu(A) center in vitro, but its in vivo function has not been explored. Here, the extent of copper center assembly in the aa(3)- and cbb(3)-type CcOs of R. sphaeroides has been examined in strains lacking PCu(A)C, PrrC, or both. The absence of either 	2013	4	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Copper; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Deletion; Molecular Chaperones; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Thompson	Audie K
22239547	10.1021/bm201457s	Photocurrent and electronic activities of oriented-His-tagged photosynthetic light-harvesting/reaction center core complexes assembled onto a gold electrode.	A polyhistidine (His) tag was fused to the C- or N-terminus of the light-harvesting (LH1)-.. chain of the photosynthetic antenna core complex (LH1-RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides to allow immobilization of the complex on a solid substrate with defined orientation. His-tagged LH1-RCs were adsorbed onto a gold electrode modified with Ni-NTA. The LH1-RC with the C-terminal His-tag (C-His LH1-RC) on the modified electrode produced a photovoltaic response upon illumination. Electron transfer is unidirectional within the RC and starts when the bacteriochlorophyll a dimer in the RC is activated by light absorbed by LH1. The LH1-RC with the N-terminal His-tag (N-His LH1-RC) produced very little or no photocurrent upon illumination at any wavelength. The conductivity of the His-tagged LH1-RC was measured with point-contact current imaging atomic force microscopy, indicating that 60% of the C-His LH1-RC are correctly oriented (N-His 63%). The oriented C-His LH1-RC or N-His LH1-RC showed semicon	2012	10	24	Biomacromolecules	Biomacromolecules	Adsorption; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biomimetic Materials; Electric Conductivity; Electrodes; Electron Transport; Electronics; Gold; Histidine; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthesis; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy	Kondo	Masaharu
22188530	10.1021/jp209575q	Theoretical study of the electronic-vibrational coupling in the Q(y) states of the photosynthetic reaction center in purple bacteria.	Inspired by the recent observation of correlated excitation energy fluctuations of neighboring chromophores (Lee et al. Science 2007, 316, 1462), quantum chemistry calculations and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to calculate the electronic-vibrational coupling in the excited states of the photosynthetic reaction center of purple bacteria Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. The ground states and lowest excited (Q(y)) states of isolated bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) and bacteriopheophytin (BPhe) molecules were first optimized using density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT). Normal mode analyses were then performed to calculate the Huang-Rhys factors of the intramolecular vibrational modes. To account for intermolecular electronic-vibrational coupling, molecular dynamics simulations were first performed. The ZINDO/S method and partial charge coupling method were then used to calculate the excitation energy fluctuations caused by the pro	2012	5	22	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electronics; Models, Theoretical; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibration	Jing	Yuanyuan
24723998	10.1021/jz4023738	Ultrafast Structural Dynamics of BlsA, a Photoreceptor from the Pathogenic Bacterium <i>Acinetobacter baumannii.</i>	Acinetobacter baumannii is an important human pathogen that can form biofilms and persist under harsh environmental conditions. Biofilm formation and virulence are modulated by blue light, which is thought to be regulated by a BLUF protein, BlsA. To understand the molecular mechanism of light sensing, we have used steady-state and ultrafast vibrational spectroscopy to compare the photoactivation mechanism of BlsA to the BLUF photosensor AppA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Although similar photocycles are observed, vibrational data together with homology modeling identify significant differences in the ..5 strand in BlsA caused by photoactivation, which are proposed to be directly linked to downstream signaling.	2021	10	21	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	NA	Brust	Richard
24478821	10.1021/jz401944q	Energy Transfer Observed in Live Cells Using Two-Dimensional Electronic Spectroscopy.	Two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy (2DES) elucidates electronic structure and dynamics on a femtosecond time scale and has proven to be an incisive tool for probing congested linear spectra of biological systems. However, samples that scatter light intensely frustrate 2DES analysis, necessitating the use of isolated protein chromophore complexes when studying photosynthetic energy transfer processes. We present a method for conducting 2DES experiments that takes only seconds to acquire thousands of 2DES spectra and permits analysis of highly scattering samples, specifically whole cells of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These in vivo 2DES experiments reveal similar timescales for energy transfer within the antennae complex (light harvesting complex 2, LH2) both in the native photosynthetic membrane environment and in isolated detergent micelles.	2021	10	21	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	Nonlinear Spectroscopy; Photosynthesis; Ultrafast Dynamics	Dahlberg	Peter D
24455885		[On the mechanism for stabilizing a long-living charge separated state of photosynthetic reaction centers frozen under intensive illumination].	It is shown that freezing of the photosynthetic reaction centers from purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides under intensive illumination leads to the appearance of long-living charge separated states of reaction centers (P(+)QA-). This implies that the recombination reactions is blocked or charge separated state is stabilized. Experimental data are presented. It is also shown that this stabilization effect is caused by the structural relaxation of reaction centers to a new equilibrium state, and the free energy difference decreases as a result of this relaxation. The possible mechanism of such relaxation is determined by the effect of the polar water molecules orientation in the semiquinone local electrostatic field. The detailed analysis of the stabilization effect has been carried out, and its result supports a hypothesis of non equilibrium state of many electron transfer reactions in biological systems.	2014	2	7	Biofizika	Biofizika	Electron Transport; Freezing; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics; Water	Krasil'nikov	P M
24382933	10.1016/B978-0-12-397923-0.00010-2	Iron homeostasis in the <i>Rhodobacter</i> genus.	Metals are utilized for a variety of critical cellular functions and are essential for survival. However cells are faced with the conundrum of needing metals coupled with e fact that some metals, iron in particular are toxic if present in excess. Maintaining metal homeostasis is therefore of critical importance to cells. In this review we have systematically analyzed sequenced genomes of three members of the Rhodobacter genus, R. capsulatus SB1003, R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 and R. ferroxidans SW2 to determine how these species undertake iron homeostasis. We focused our analysis on elemental ferrous and ferric iron uptake genes as well as genes involved in the utilization of iron from heme. We also discuss how Rhodobacter species manage iron toxicity through export and sequestration of iron. Finally we discuss the various putative strategies set up by these Rhodobacter species to regulate iron homeostasis and the potential novel means of regulation. 	2021	10	21	Adv Bot Res	Advances in botanical research	NA	Zappa	S..bastien
24379133	10.1007/s11120-013-9961-8	Modulation of the redox state of quinones by light in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under anaerobic conditions.	Illumination of intact cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides under anaerobic conditions has a dual effect on the redox state of the quinone pool. A large oxidation of the quinone pool is observed during the first seconds following the illumination. This oxidation is suppressed by the addition of an uncoupler in agreement with a light-induced reverse electron transfer at the level of the complex I, present both in the non-invaginated part of the membrane and in the chromatophores. At longer dark times, this illumination increases the reducing power of the cells leading to a significant reduction of the others reaction centers (RCs). From the observation that a significant proportion of RCs could be reduced by the preillumination without affecting the numbers of charge separation for the RCs, we conclude that there is no rapid thermodynamic equilibrium between the quinones present in the non-invaginated part of the membrane and those localized in the chromatophores. Under anaerobic conditions	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Anaerobiosis; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Verm..glio	Andr..
24359742	10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.037	Time-resolved surface-enhanced IR-absorption spectroscopy of direct electron transfer to cytochrome c oxidase from R. sphaeroides.	Time-resolved surface-enhanced IR-absorption spectroscopy triggered by electrochemical modulation has been performed on cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Single bands isolated from a broad band in the amide I region using phase-sensitive detection were attributed to different redox centers. Their absorbances changing on the millisecond timescale could be fitted to a model based on protonation-dependent chemical reaction kinetics established previously. Substantial conformational changes of secondary structures coupled to redox transitions were revealed. 	2014	8	15	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Electrons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Schwaighofer	Andreas
24335753	10.3390/toxins5122353	An extract of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reduces cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in mice.	Cisplatin is used as a treatment for various types of solid tumors. Renal injury severely limits the use of cisplatin. Renal cell apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation contribute to cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. Previously, we found that an extract of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Lycogen...) inhibited proinflammatory cytokines and the production of nitric oxide in activated macrophages in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis model. Here, we evaluated the effect of Lycogen..., a potent anti-inflammatory agent, in mice with cisplatin-induced renal injury. We found that attenuated renal injury correlated with decreased apoptosis due to a reduction in caspase-3 expression in renal cells. Oral administration of Lycogen... significantly reduced the expression of tumor necrosis factor-.. and interleukin-1.. in mice with renal injury. Lycogen... reduces renal dysfunction in mice with cisplatin-induced renal injury. The protective effects of the treatment included blockage of 	2014	9	11	Toxins (Basel)	Toxins	Animals; Anti-Inflammatory Agents; Antineoplastic Agents; Biological Products; Blood Urea Nitrogen; Body Weight; Cell Line; Cell Survival; Cisplatin; Creatinine; Interleukin-1beta; Kidney; Kidney Diseases; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Chang	Wen-Wei
24316146	10.1016/j.bbabio.2013.11.015	Structural and kinetic properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers containing exclusively Zn-coordinated bacteriochlorophyll as bacteriochlorin cofactors.	The Zn-BChl-containing reaction center (RC) produced in a bchD (magnesium chelatase) mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides assembles with six Zn-bacteriochlorophylls (Zn-BChls) in place of four Mg-containing bacteriochlorophylls (BChls) and two bacteriopheophytins (BPhes). This protein presents unique opportunities for studying biological electron transfer, as Zn-containing chlorins can exist in 4-, 5-, and (theoretically) 6-coordinate states within the RC. In this paper, the electron transfer perturbations attributed exclusively to coordination state effects are separated from those attributed to the presence, absence, or type of metal in the bacteriochlorin at the HA pocket of the RC. The presence of a 4-coordinate Zn(2+) ion in the HA bacteriochlorin instead of BPhe results in a small decrease in the rates of the P*...P(+)HA(-)...P(+)QA(-) electron transfer, and the charge separation yield is not greatly perturbed; however coordination of the Zn(2+) by a fifth ligand provided by a histi	2014	4	15	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacteriochlorophyll; Bacteriopheophytin; Electron transfer; Reaction center; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porphyrins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Saer	Rafael G
24270095	10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.11.009	Modeling of reversible charge separation in reaction centers of photosynthesis: an incoherent approach.	Primary charge separation in reaction centers (RCs) of bacterial photosynthesis is modeled in this work. An incoherent population dynamics of RCs states is formulated by kinetic equations. It is assumed that charge separation is accompanied by regular motion of the system along additional coordinates. This motion modulates an energetics of the reactions, and this modulation causes femtosecond oscillations in the population of the states. The best qualitative and quantitative accordance with experimental data on native, modified and mutant RCs of Rba. sphaeroides is achieved in the five states model that includes two excited states P(*)905BAHA and P(*)940BAHA and three charge separated states I, P(+)BA(-)HA and P(+)BAHA(-) (P is a primary electron donor, bacteriochlorophyll dimer, BA and HA are electron acceptors, monomeric bacteriochlorophyll and bacteriopheophytin in active A-branch respectively). The excited states emit at 905 and 940 nm and have approximately the same energy and hig	2014	9	28	J Theor Biol	Journal of theoretical biology	Absorbance change (light minus dark); B(A); BChl; BChl molecules constituting P; Bacteriochlorophyll; Bacteriopheophytin in A-branch; Charge separation; ET; Electron transfer; H(A); Monomeric BChl in A-branch; P; P(A) and P(B); Photosynthesis; Primary electron donor, bacteriochlorophyll dimer; Primary quinone; Q(A); RC; Rba.; Reaction center; Rhodobacter; ..A; Electrons; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Yakovlev	A G
24262631	10.1016/j.neuropharm.2013.11.003	Bladder pain relief by HMGB1 neutralization and soluble thrombomodulin in mice with cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis.	High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), one of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), plays roles in not only inflammation but also processing of somatic pain. Given that no evidence for roles of HMGB1 in visceral pain signaling is available, we asked if HMGB1 participates in bladder pain accompanying cystitis caused by cyclophosphamide in mice, using the anti-HMGB1 neutralizing antibody and recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhsTM) that sequesters HMGB1 and promotes its degradation by thrombin. Cyclophosphamide, administered i.p., caused bladder pain-like nociceptive behavior and referred hyperalgesia accompanying cystitis symptoms including increased bladder weight, an indicator of edema, in mice. The cyclophosphamide-induced bladder pain and referred hyperalgesia, but not increased bladder weight, were prevented by i.p. preadministration of the anti-HMGB1 neutralizing antibody or rhsTM. HMGB1, given i.p., facilitated the bladder pain and referred hyperalgesia caused by a su	2014	12	3	Neuropharmacology	Neuropharmacology	Bladder pain; Cystitis; High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1); Receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE); Thrombomodulin; Visceral pain; Analgesics; Animals; Antibodies, Neutralizing; Cyclophosphamide; Cystitis; Female; HMGB1 Protein; Heparin; Humans; Hyperalgesia; Immunologic Factors; Lipopolysaccharides; Mice; Nociceptive Pain; Organ Size; Pain; Pain, Referred; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thrombomodulin; Urinary Bladder; Urothelium	Tanaka	Junichi
24249151	10.1007/s10534-013-9687-2	The lipidome of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 is affected by cobalt and chromate ions stress.	A detailed characterization of membrane lipids of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides was accomplished by thin-layer chromatography coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry. Such an approach allowed the identification of the main membrane lipids belonging to different classes, namely cardiolipins (CLs), phosphatidylethanolamines, phosphatidylglycerols (PGs), phosphatidylcholines, and sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerols (SQDGs). Thus, the lipidomic profile of R. sphaeroides R26 grown in abiotic stressed conditions by exposure to bivalent cobalt cation and chromate oxyanion, was investigated. Compared to bacteria grown under control conditions, significant lipid alterations take place under both stress conditions; cobalt exposure stress results in the relative content increase of CLs and SQDGs, most likely compensating the decrease in PGs content, whereas chromate stress conditions result in the relative content decrease of both PGs and 	2015	2	13	Biometals	Biometals : an international journal on the role of metal ions in biology, biochemistry, and medicine	Chromates; Cobalt; Ions; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Calvano	Cosima Damiana
24223961	10.1371/journal.pone.0079520	DegS and RseP homologous proteases are involved in singlet oxygen dependent activation of RpoE in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Singlet oxygen ((1)O2) is the main agent of photooxidative stress and is generated by photosensitizers as (bacterio)chlorophylls. It leads to the damage of cellular macromolecules and therefore photosynthetic organisms have to mount an adaptive response to (1)O2 formation. A major player of the photooxidative stress response in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is the alternative sigma factor RpoE, which is inactivated under non-stress conditions by its cognate anti-sigma factor ChrR. By using random mutagenesis we identified RSP_1090 to be required for full activation of the RpoE response under (1)O2 stress, but not under organic peroxide stress. In this study we show that both RSP_1090 and RSP_1091 are required for full resistance towards (1)O2. Moreover, we revealed that the DegS and RseP homologs RSP_3242 and RSP_2710 contribute to (1)O2 resistance and promote ChrR proteolysis. The RpoE signaling pathway in R. sphaeroides is therefore highly similar to that of Escherichia coli, although very	2014	8	18	PLoS One	PloS one	Bacterial Proteins; Conserved Sequence; Enzyme Activation; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Oxidative Stress; Peptide Hydrolases; Proteolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Sigma Factor; Signal Transduction; Singlet Oxygen	Nuss	Aaron M
24212053	10.1016/j.bbabio.2013.10.013	Reductive activation in periplasmic nitrate reductase involves chemical modifications of the Mo-cofactor beyond the first coordination sphere of the metal ion.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides periplasmic nitrate reductase NapAB, the major Mo(V) form (the "high g" species) in air-purified samples is inactive and requires reduction to irreversibly convert into a catalytically competent form (Fourmond et al., J. Phys. Chem., 2008). In the present work, we study the kinetics of the activation process by combining EPR spectroscopy and direct electrochemistry. Upon reduction, the Mo (V) "high g" resting EPR signal slowly decays while the other redox centers of the protein are rapidly reduced, which we interpret as a slow and gated (or coupled) intramolecular electron transfer between the [4Fe-4S] center and the Mo cofactor in the inactive enzyme. Besides, we detect spin-spin interactions between the Mo(V) ion and the [4Fe-4S](1+) cluster which are modified upon activation of the enzyme, while the EPR signatures associated to the Mo cofactor remain almost unchanged. This shows that the activation process, which modifies the exchange coupling pathway betw	2014	3	20	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	EPR spectroscopy; Electron transfer; Molybdenum; Nitrate reductase; Protein film voltammetry; Pyranopterin; Coenzymes; Electrochemical Techniques; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Enzyme Activation; Ions; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Ligands; Metalloproteins; Models, Molecular; Molybdenum; Molybdenum Cofactors; Nitrate Reductase; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasm; Pteridines; Pterins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spin Labels; Temperature	Jacques	Julien G J
24206647	10.1186/1472-6807-13-28	The crystal structures of the tri-functional Chloroflexus aurantiacus and bi-functional Rhodobacter sphaeroides malyl-CoA lyases and comparison with CitE-like superfamily enzymes and malate synthases.	Malyl-CoA lyase (MCL) is a promiscuous carbon-carbon bond lyase that catalyzes the reversible cleavage of structurally related Coenzyme A (CoA) thioesters. This enzyme plays a crucial, multifunctional role in the 3-hydroxypropionate bi-cycle for autotrophic CO2 fixation in Chloroflexus aurantiacus. A second, phylogenetically distinct MCL from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is involved in the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway for acetate assimilation. Both MCLs belong to the large superfamily of CitE-like enzymes, which includes the name-giving ..-subunit of citrate lyase (CitE), malyl-CoA thioesterases and other enzymes of unknown physiological function. The CitE-like enzyme superfamily also bears sequence and structural resemblance to the malate synthases. All of these different enzymes share highly conserved catalytic residues, although they catalyze distinctly different reactions: C-C bond formation and cleavage, thioester hydrolysis, or both (the malate synthases). Here we report the first crystal	2014	7	15	BMC Struct Biol	BMC structural biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Chloroflexus; Malate Synthase; Models, Molecular; Multifunctional Enzymes; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Phylogeny; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Zarzycki	Jan
24204227	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003276	Novel methods for analysing bacterial tracks reveal persistence in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Tracking bacteria using video microscopy is a powerful experimental approach to probe their motile behaviour. The trajectories obtained contain much information relating to the complex patterns of bacterial motility. However, methods for the quantitative analysis of such data are limited. Most swimming bacteria move in approximately straight lines, interspersed with random reorientation phases. It is therefore necessary to segment observed tracks into swimming and reorientation phases to extract useful statistics. We present novel robust analysis tools to discern these two phases in tracks. Our methods comprise a simple and effective protocol for removing spurious tracks from tracking datasets, followed by analysis based on a two-state hidden Markov model, taking advantage of the availability of mutant strains that exhibit swimming-only or reorientating-only motion to generate an empirical prior distribution. Using simulated tracks with varying levels of added noise, we validate our me	2014	6	16	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Cell Movement; Computer Simulation; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Microscopy, Video; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Single-Cell Analysis	Rosser	Gabriel
24197265	10.1007/s11120-013-9949-4	Variation in supramolecular organisation of the photosynthetic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides induced by alteration of PufX.	In purple bacteria of the genus Rhodobacter (Rba.), an LH1 antenna complex surrounds the photochemical reaction centre (RC) with a PufX protein preventing the LH1 complex from completely encircling the RC. In membranes of Rba. sphaeroides, RC-LH1 complexes associate as dimers which in turn assemble into longer range ordered arrays. The present work uses linear dichroism (LD) and dark-minus-light difference LD (..LD) to probe the organisation of genetically altered RC-LH1 complexes in intact membranes. The data support previous proposals that Rba. capsulatus, and Rba. sphaeroides heterologously expressing the PufX protein from Rba. capsulatus, produce monomeric core complexes in membranes that lack long-range order. Similarly, Rba. sphaeroides with a point mutation in the Gly 51 residue of PufX, which is located on the membrane-periplasm interface, assembles mainly non-ordered RC-LH1 complexes that are most likely monomeric. All the Rba. sphaeroides membranes in their ..LD spectra exhib	2014	8	18	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Sznee	Kinga
24180491	10.1186/1471-2091-14-28	Detrimental effect of the 6 His C-terminal tag on YedY enzymatic activity and influence of the TAT signal sequence on YedY synthesis.	YedY, a molybdoenzyme belonging to the sulfite oxidase family, is found in most Gram-negative bacteria. It contains a twin-arginine signal sequence that is cleaved after its translocation into the periplasm. Despite a weak reductase activity with substrates such as dimethyl sulfoxide or trimethylamine N-oxide, its natural substrate and its role in the cell remain unknown. Although sequence conservation of the YedY family displays a strictly conserved hydrophobic C-terminal residue, all known studies on Escherichia coli YedY have been performed with an enzyme containing a 6 histidine-tag at the C-terminus which could hamper enzyme activity. In this study, we demonstrate that the tag fused to the C-terminus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides YedY is detrimental to the enzyme's reductase activity and results in an eight-fold decrease in catalytic efficiency. Nonetheless this C-terminal tag does not influence the properties of the molybdenum active site, as assayed by EPR spectroscopy. When a clea	2014	6	17	BMC Biochem	BMC biochemistry	Catalytic Domain; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Histidine; Kinetics; Molybdenum; Oligopeptides; Oxidoreductases; Plasmids; Protein Sorting Signals; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sabaty	Monique
24160544	10.1063/1.4824637	Probing energy transfer events in the light harvesting complex 2 (LH2) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with two-dimensional spectroscopy.	Excitation energy transfer events in the photosynthetic light harvesting complex 2 (LH2) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are investigated with polarization controlled two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy. A spectrally broadened pulse allows simultaneous measurement of the energy transfer within and between the two absorption bands at 800 nm and 850 nm. The phased all-parallel polarization two-dimensional spectra resolve the initial events of energy transfer by separating the intra-band and inter-band relaxation processes across the two-dimensional map. The internal dynamics of the 800 nm region of the spectra are resolved as a cross peak that grows in on an ultrafast time scale, reflecting energy transfer between higher lying excitations of the B850 chromophores into the B800 states. We utilize a polarization sequence designed to highlight the initial excited state dynamics which uncovers an ultrafast transfer component between the two bands that was not observed in the all-parallel pola	2014	5	19	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Fidler	Andrew F
24146256	10.1007/s11120-013-9944-9	Analysis of the role of PrrA, PpsR, and FnrL in intracytoplasmic membrane differentiation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 using transmission electron microscopy.	Oxygen dictates the catabolic "lifestyle" of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. When it is present, the bacteria are fully equipped for aerobic respiration. When it is absent, the cells outfit themselves to make use of energy-gathering options that do not require oxygen. Thus, while respiring on alternate electron acceptors in the absence of oxygen even in the dark, the cells are fully enabled for phototrophy. PrrA, PpsR, and FnrL are global regulatory proteins mediating oxygen control of gene expression in this organism. For each of these, regulon members include a subset of a cluster of genes known as the photosynthesis genes, which encode the structural proteins and enzymes catalyzing biosynthesis of the pigments of the light-harvesting and reaction center complexes. The complexes are housed in a specialized structure called the intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM). Although details are emerging as to the differentiation process leading to fully formed ICM, little is known of necessary regulatory 	2014	9	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; Cytoplasm; Intracellular Membranes; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Mutation; Phototrophic Processes; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators	Fedotova	Yana
24139443	10.1016/j.tplants.2013.09.009	Cellulose synthases: new insights from crystallography and modeling.	Detailed information about the structure and biochemical mechanisms of cellulose synthase (CelS) proteins remained elusive until a complex containing the catalytic subunit (BcsA) of CelS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was crystalized. Additionally, a 3D structure of most of the cytosolic domain of a plant CelS (GhCESA1 from cotton, Gossypium hirsutum) was produced by computational modeling. This predicted structure contributes to our understanding of how plant CelS proteins may be similar and different as compared with BcsA. In this review, we highlight how these structures impact our understanding of the synthesis of cellulose and other extracellular polysaccharides. We show how the structures can be used to generate hypotheses for experiments testing mechanisms of glucan synthesis and translocation in plant CelS. 	2014	9	30	Trends Plant Sci	Trends in plant science	Catalytic Domain; Crystallography; Glucosyltransferases; Models, Molecular; Plant Proteins	Slabaugh	Erin
24131108	10.1021/bi4011946	Three-dimensional structure of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC-LH1-PufX complex: dimerization and quinone channels promoted by PufX.	Reaction center-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) complexes are the fundamental units of bacterial photosynthesis, which use solar energy to power the reduction of quinone to quinol prior to the formation of the proton gradient that drives ATP synthesis. The dimeric RC-LH1-PufX complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is composed of 64 polypeptides and 128 cofactors, including 56 LH1 bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) molecules that surround and donate energy to the two RCs. The 3D structure was determined to 8 .. by X-ray crystallography, and a model was built with constraints provided by electron microscopy (EM), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), mass spectrometry (MS), and site-directed mutagenesis. Each half of the dimer complex consists of a RC surrounded by an array of 14 LH1 .... subunits, with two BChls sandwiched between each .... pair of transmembrane helices. The N- and C-terminal extrinsic domains of PufX promote dimerization by interacting with the corresponding domains of an LH1 .. polyp	2014	2	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Benzoquinones; Carotenoids; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mass Spectrometry; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Protein Conformation; Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Diffraction	Qian	Pu
24127606	10.1073/pnas.1314063110	BcsA and BcsB form the catalytically active core of bacterial cellulose synthase sufficient for in vitro cellulose synthesis.	Cellulose is a linear extracellular polysaccharide. It is synthesized by membrane-embedded glycosyltransferases that processively polymerize UDP-activated glucose. Polymer synthesis is coupled to membrane translocation through a channel formed by the cellulose synthase. Although eukaryotic cellulose synthases function in macromolecular complexes containing several different enzyme isoforms, prokaryotic synthases associate with additional subunits to bridge the periplasm and the outer membrane. In bacteria, cellulose synthesis and translocation is catalyzed by the inner membrane-associated bacterial cellulose synthase (Bcs)A and BcsB subunits. Similar to alginate and poly-..-1,6 N-acetylglucosamine, bacterial cellulose is implicated in the formation of sessile bacterial communities, termed biofilms, and its synthesis is likewise stimulated by cyclic-di-GMP. Biochemical studies of exopolysaccharide synthesis are hampered by difficulties in purifying and reconstituting functional enzymes.	2014	1	8	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	biopolymer; glycobiology; in vitro reconstitution; membrane transport; Biofilms; Biological Transport; Blotting, Western; Cellulose; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry; Glucosyltransferases; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Omadjela	Okako
24126349	10.1099/mic.0.073031-0	Altered residues in key proteins influence the expression and activity of the nitrogenase complex in an adaptive CO2 fixation-deficient mutant strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Previously, the RubisCO-compromised spontaneous adaptive Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant, strain 16PHC, was shown to derepress the expression of genes that encode the nitrogenase complex under normal repressive conditions. As a result of this adaptation, the active nitrogenase complex restored redox balance, thus allowing strain 16PHC to grow under photoheterotrophic conditions in the absence of an exogenous electron acceptor. A combination of whole genome pyrosequencing and whole genome microarray analyses was employed to identify possible loci responsible for the observed phenotype. Mutations were found in two genes, glnA and nifA, whose products are involved in the regulatory cascade that controls nitrogenase complex gene expression. In addition, a nucleotide reversion within the nifK gene, which encodes a subunit of the nitrogenase complex, was also identified. Subsequent genetic, physiological and biochemical studies revealed alterations that led to derepression of the synthesis of	2014	8	26	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Bacterial Proteins; DNA Mutational Analysis; Genetic Loci; Genome, Bacterial; Microarray Analysis; Mutation; Nitrogenase; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Farmer	Ryan M
24122603	10.1002/bit.25130	Enhanced production of coenzyme Q10 by self-regulating the engineered MEP pathway in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Fine-tuning the expression level of an engineered pathway is crucial for the metabolic engineering of a host toward a desired phenotype. However, most engineered hosts suffer from nonfunctional protein expression, metabolic imbalance, cellular burden or toxicity from intermediates when an engineered pathway is first introduced, which can decrease production of the desired product. To circumvent these obstacles, we developed a self-regulation system utilizing the trc/tac promoter, LacI(q) protein and ribosomal binding sites (RBS). With the purpose of improving coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10 ) production by increasing the decaprenyl diphosphate supplement, enzymes DXS, DXR, IDI, and IspD were constitutively overexpressed under the control of the trc promoter in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Then, a self-regulation system combining a set of RBSs for adjusting the expression of the LacI(q) protein was applied to tune the expression of the four genes, resulting in improved CoQ10 production. Finally, anothe	2014	10	17	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	LacIq; coenzyme Q10; constitutive expression; metabolic balance; ribosomal bind site; self-regulation; Erythritol; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Lu	Wenqiang
24112147	10.1111/pbi.12124	Valencene synthase from the heartwood of Nootka cypress (Callitropsis nootkatensis) for biotechnological production of valencene.	Nootkatone is one of the major terpenes in the heartwood of the Nootka cypress Callitropsis nootkatensis. It is an oxidized sesquiterpene, which has been postulated to be derived from valencene. Both valencene and nootkatone are used for flavouring citrus beverages and are considered among the most valuable terpenes used at commercial scale. Functional evaluation of putative terpene synthase genes sourced by large-scale EST sequencing from Nootka cypress wood revealed a valencene synthase gene (CnVS). CnVS expression in different tissues from the tree correlates well with nootkatone content, suggesting that CnVS represents the first dedicated gene in the nootkatone biosynthetic pathway in C. nootkatensis The gene belongs to the gymnosperm-specific TPS-d subfamily of terpenes synthases and its protein sequence has low similarity to known citrus valencene synthases. In vitro, CnVS displays high robustness under different pH and temperature regimes, potentially beneficial properties for a	2014	9	9	Plant Biotechnol J	Plant biotechnology journal	Rhodobacter; flavour; terpene synthase; valencene; Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Amino Acid Sequence; Biotechnology; Cupressaceae; Gene Expression; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Polycyclic Sesquiterpenes; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sesquiterpenes; Terpenes; Wood	Beekwilder	Jules
24079813	10.1021/bi4011896	Tuning cofactor redox potentials: the 2-methoxy dihedral angle generates a redox potential difference of &gt;160 mV between the primary (Q(A)) and secondary (Q(B)) quinones of the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center.	Only quinones with a 2-methoxy group can act simultaneously as the primary (QA) and secondary (QB) electron acceptors in photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. (13)C hyperfine sublevel correlation measurements of the 2-methoxy in the semiquinone states, SQA and SQB, were compared with quantum mechanics calculations of the (13)C couplings as a function of the dihedral angle. X-ray structures support dihedral angle assignments corresponding to a redox potential gap (..Em) between QA and QB of ~180 mV. This is consistent with the failure of a ubiquinone analogue lacking the 2-methoxy to function as QB in mutant reaction centers with a ..Em of ...160-195 mV.	2013	12	23	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Coenzymes; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Taguchi	Alexander T
24073649	10.1021/bi400674h	Computational prediction and in vitro analysis of potential physiological ligands of the bile acid binding site in cytochrome c oxidase.	A conserved bile acid site has been crystallographically defined in the membrane domain of mammalian and Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase (RsCcO). Diverse amphipathic ligands were shown previously to bind to this site and affect the electron transfer equilibrium between heme a and a3 cofactors by blocking the K proton uptake path. Current studies identify physiologically relevant ligands for the bile acid site using a novel three-pronged computational approach: ROCS comparison of ligand shape and electrostatics, SimSite3D comparison of ligand binding site features, and SLIDE screening of potential ligands by docking. Identified candidate ligands include steroids, nicotinamides, flavins, nucleotides, retinoic acid, and thyroid hormones, which are predicted to make key protein contacts with the residues involved in bile acid binding. In vitro oxygen consumption and ligand competition assays on RsCcO wildtype and its Glu101Ala mutant support regulatory activity and specificity	2014	2	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Adenosine Triphosphate; Binding Sites; Computer Simulation; Deoxycholic Acid; Electron Transport Complex IV; Fusidic Acid; Kinetics; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Molecular Docking Simulation; Oxygen Consumption; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tretinoin	Buhrow	Leann
24056105	10.1128/JB.00760-13	A distant homologue of the FlgT protein interacts with MotB and FliL and is essential for flagellar rotation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this work, we describe a periplasmic protein that is essential for flagellar rotation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. This protein is encoded upstream of flgA, and its expression is dependent on the flagellar master regulator FleQ and on the class III flagellar activator FleT. Sequence comparisons suggest that this protein is a distant homologue of FlgT. We show evidence that in R. sphaeroides, FlgT interacts with the periplasmic regions of MotB and FliL and with the flagellar protein MotF, which was recently characterized as a membrane component of the flagellum in this bacterium. In addition, the localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-MotF is completely dependent on FlgT. The Mot(-) phenotype of flgT cells was weakly suppressed by point mutants of MotB that presumably keep the proton channel open and efficiently suppress the Mot(-) phenotype of motF and fliL cells, indicating that FlgT could play an additional role beyond the opening of the proton channel. The presence of Flg	2013	12	26	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Models, Molecular; Movement; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Fabela	Salvador
24055970	10.1016/j.biortech.2013.08.078	Continuous cultivation of photosynthetic bacteria for fatty acids production.	In the present work, we introduced a novel approach for microbial fatty acids (FA) production. Photosynthetic bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131, were cultivated in a continuous-flow, stirred-tank reactor (CFSTR) at various substrate (lactate) concentrations. At hydraulic retention time (HRT) 4d, cell concentration continuously increased from 0.97 g dcw/L to 2.05 g dcw/L as lactate concentration increased from 30 mM to 60mM. At 70 mM, however, cell concentration fluctuated with incomplete substrate degradation. By installing a membrane unit to CFSTR, a stable performance was observed under much higher substrate loading (lactate 100mM and HRT 1.5d). A maximum cell concentration of 16.2g dcw/L, cell productivity of 1.9 g dcw/L/d, and FA productivity of 665 mg FA/L/d were attained, and these values were comparable with those achieved using microalgae. The FA content of R. sphaeroides was around 35% of dry cell weight, mainly composed of vaccenic acid (C18:1, omega-7).	2014	8	29	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Cell productivity; Fatty acids; Lactate; Membrane-coupled bioreactor; Photosynthetic bacteria; Biodegradation, Environmental; Bioreactors; Cell Culture Techniques; Fatty Acids; Lactic Acid; Membranes, Artificial; Microalgae; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter; Time Factors	Kim	Dong-Hoon
24034694	10.1016/j.molcel.2013.08.014	Bacterial argonaute samples the transcriptome to identify foreign DNA.	Eukaryotic Argonautes bind small RNAs and use them as guides to find complementary RNA targets and induce gene silencing. Though homologs of eukaryotic Argonautes are present in many bacteria and archaea, their small RNA partners and functions are unknown. We found that the Argonaute of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsAgo) associates with 15-19 nt RNAs that correspond to the majority of transcripts. RsAgo also binds single-stranded 22-24 nt DNA molecules that are complementary to the small RNAs and enriched in sequences derived from exogenous plasmids as well as genome-encoded..foreign nucleic acids such as transposons and phage genes. Expression of RsAgo in the heterologous E...coli system leads to formation of plasmid-derived small RNA and DNA and plasmid degradation. In a R...sphaeroides mutant lacking RsAgo, expression of plasmid-encoded genes is elevated. Our results indicate that RNAi-related processes found in eukaryotes are also conserved in bacteria and target foreign nucleic acids	2014	1	6	Mol Cell	Molecular cell	Argonaute Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation; Plasmids; RNA Interference; RNA, Small Interfering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptome	Olovnikov	Ivan
24034347	10.1186/1752-0509-7-89	Global insights into energetic and metabolic networks in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Improving our understanding of processes at the core of cellular lifestyles can be aided by combining information from genetic analyses, high-throughput experiments and computational predictions. We combined data and predictions derived from phenotypic, physiological, genetic and computational analyses to dissect the metabolic and energetic networks of the facultative photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We focused our analysis on pathways crucial to the production and recycling of pyridine nucleotides during aerobic respiratory and anaerobic photosynthetic growth in the presence of an organic electron donor. In particular, we assessed the requirement for NADH/NADPH transhydrogenase enzyme, PntAB during respiratory and photosynthetic growth. Using high-throughput phenotype microarrays (PMs), we found that PntAB is essential for photosynthetic growth in the presence of many organic electron donors, particularly those predicted to require its activity to produce NADPH. Utili	2014	4	1	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Energy Metabolism; Genomics; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Models, Biological; NADP; Photosynthesis; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Systems Biology	Imam	Saheed
24009618	10.3389/fpls.2013.00328	Comparison of calculated and experimental isotope edited FTIR difference spectra for purple bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers with different quinones incorporated into the QA binding site.	Previously we have shown that ONIOM type (QM/MM) calculations can be used to simulate isotope edited FTIR difference spectra for neutral ubiquinone in the QA binding site in Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centers. Here we considerably extend upon this previous work by calculating isotope edited FTIR difference spectra for reaction centers with a variety of unlabeled and (18)O labeled foreign quinones incorporated into the QA binding site. Isotope edited spectra were calculated for reaction centers with 2,3-dimethoxy-5,6-dimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (MQ0), 2,3,5,6-tetramethyl-1, 4-benzoquinone (duroquinone, DQ), and 2,3-dimethyl-l,4-naphthoquinone (DMNQ) incorporated, and compared to corresponding experimental spectra. The calculated and experimental spectra agree well, further demonstrating the utility and applicability of our ONIOM approach for calculating the vibrational properties of pigments in protein binding sites. The normal modes that contribute to the bands in th	2013	9	6	Front Plant Sci	Frontiers in plant science	FTIR; ONIOM; QA; density functional theory (DFT) calculations; quinone; reaction center	Zhao	Nan
23999896	10.1039/c3cp44187c	Analysis of the temperature-dependence of P(+)HA(-) charge recombination in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center suggests nanosecond temperature-independent protein relaxation.	The temperature dependence of charge recombination of the pair P(+)HA(-) in isolated reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides with prereduced quinone QA was studied by sub-nanosecond to microsecond time-scale transient absorption. Overall, the kinetics slowed down substantially upon cooling from room temperature to ...200 K, and then remained virtually unchanged down to 77 K, indicating the coexistence of two competitive pathways of charge recombination, a thermally-activated pathway appearing only above ~200 K and a temperature-independent pathway. In our modelling, the thermally activated pathway includes an uphill electron transfer from HA(-) to BA(-) leading to transient formation of the state P(+)BA(-), whereas the temperature-independent pathway is due to direct downhill electron transfer from HA(-) to P(+). At all temperatures studied, the kinetics could be approximated by a four-component decay. Detailed analysis of the lifetimes and amplitudes of part	2014	3	31	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Benzoquinones; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Phenanthrolines; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Time Factors	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
25509391		[Comparative study of metabolism of the purple photosynthetic bacteria grown in the light and in the dark under anaerobic and aerobic conditions].	For three species of anoxygenic phototrophic alphaproteobacteria differing in their reaction to oxygen and light, physiological characteristics (capacity for acetate assimilation, activity of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes, respiration, and the properties of the oxidase systems) were studied. Nonsulfur purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobaca bogoriensis, and aerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria Roseinatronobacter thiooxidans were the subjects of investigation. All these organisms were able to grow under aerobic conditions in the dark using the respiratory system with cytochrome aa3 as the terminal oxidase. They differed, however, in their capacity for growth in the light, bacteriochlorophyll synthesis, and regulation of activity of the TCA cycle enzymes. Oxygen suppressed bacteriochlorophyll synthesis by Rha. sphaeroides and Rbc. bogoriensis both in the dark and in the light. Bacteriochlorophyll synthesis in Rna. thiooxidans occurred only in the dark and was 	2014	12	31	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Light; Rhodobacteraceae; Species Specificity	Keppen	O I
23990416	10.1093/bioinformatics/btt476	The MaSuRCA genome assembler.	Second-generation sequencing technologies produce high coverage of the genome by short reads at a low cost, which has prompted development of new assembly methods. In particular, multiple algorithms based on de Bruijn graphs have been shown to be effective for the assembly problem. In this article, we describe a new hybrid approach that has the computational efficiency of de Bruijn graph methods and the flexibility of overlap-based assembly strategies, and which allows variable read lengths while tolerating a significant level of sequencing error. Our method transforms large numbers of paired-end reads into a much smaller number of longer 'super-reads'. The use of super-reads allows us to assemble combinations of Illumina reads of differing lengths together with longer reads from 454 and Sanger sequencing technologies, making it one of the few assemblers capable of handling such mixtures. We call our system the Maryland Super-Read Celera Assembler (abbreviated MaSuRCA and pronounced 'm	2014	3	31	Bioinformatics	Bioinformatics (Oxford, England)	Algorithms; Animals; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; Mice; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Software	Zimin	Aleksey V
23988946	10.1364/OL.38.003322	Arbitrary-detuning asynchronous optical sampling pump-probe spectroscopy of bacterial reaction centers.	A recently reported variant of asynchronous optical sampling compatible with arbitrary unstabilized laser repetition rates is applied to pump-probe spectroscopy. This makes possible the use of a 5.1 MHz chirped pulse oscillator as the pump laser, thus extending the available time window to almost 200 ns with a time resolution as good as about 320 fs. The method is illustrated with the measurement in a single experiment of the complete charge transfer dynamics of the reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	2014	4	29	Opt Lett	Optics letters	Electron Transport; Optical Devices; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Antonucci	Laura
23975399	10.1134/S1607672913040078	Direct transition of pGA482:ipt plasmid bearing the cytokinin biosynthesis gene into the cells of phototrophic purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris by electroporation.	NA	2013	12	12	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Cytokinins; Electroporation; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Phototrophic Processes; Plasmids; Protein Engineering; Proteobacteria; Recombinant Proteins; Transfection; Transformation, Bacterial	Serdyuk	O P
23957339	10.1111/cea.12165	Activation of TLR4 induces VEGF expression via Akt pathway in nasal polyps.	Nasal polyposis is characterized by tissue remodelling and oedematous nasal mucosa. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays a significant role in the regulation of remodelling in nasal polyps. TLR4 activation is associated with VEGF expression in murine macrophages and odontoblasts. This study aimed to evaluate whether lipopolysaccharide (LPS), an inducer of TLR4, stimulates VEGF expression and to determine the mechanism underlying VEGF production in nasal polyps. Nasal polyp-derived fibroblasts (NPDFs) were isolated from 10 patients with nasal polyps and exposed to LPS. LPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LRS) was used to inhibit the expression levels of TLR4, MyD88 and VEGF. Messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels of TLRs, MyD88 and VEGF were determined by gene expression microarray and semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR. Protein expression levels of TLR4 and VEGF were analysed using western blot, immunofluorescence staining and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).	2014	5	19	Clin Exp Allergy	Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology	LPS; TLR; VEGF; fibroblasts; nasal polyposis; Enzyme Activation; Fibroblasts; Gene Expression Regulation; Humans; Lipopolysaccharides; MAP Kinase Signaling System; Nasal Polyps; Organ Culture Techniques; Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Transcriptome; Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A	Cho	J-S
23955006	10.1128/JB.00685-13	Acrylyl-coenzyme A reductase, an enzyme involved in the assimilation of 3-hydroxypropionate by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The anoxygenic phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses 3-hydroxypropionate as a sole carbon source for growth. Previously, we showed that the gene (RSP_1434) known as acuI, which encodes a protein of the medium-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (MDR) superfamily, was involved in 3-hydroxypropionate assimilation via the reductive conversion to propionyl-coenzyme A (CoA). Based on these results, we speculated that acuI encoded acrylyl-CoA reductase. In this work, we characterize the in vitro enzyme activity of purified, recombinant AcuI using a coupled spectrophotometric assay. AcuI from R. sphaeroides catalyzes the NADPH-dependent acrylyl-CoA reduction to produce propionyl-CoA. Two other members of the MDR012 family within the MDR superfamily, the products of SPO_1914 from Ruegeria pomeroyi and yhdH from Escherichia coli, were shown to also be part of this new class of NADPH-dependent acrylyl-CoA reductases. The activities of the three enzymes were characterized by an extremely low Km for a	2013	12	2	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Histidine; Lactic Acid; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Asao	Marie
23952237	10.1021/bi400431t	Characterization and modeling of the oligomeric state and ligand binding behavior of purified translocator protein 18 kDa from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Translocator Protein 18 kDa (TSPO), previously known as the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), is a mitochondrial outer membrane protein that has been identified as a key player in cholesterol and porphyrin transport, apoptotic signaling, and cancer development, as well as neurological inflammation and disease. Despite a number of TSPO ligands whose effects have been studied with respect to these varied biological activities, the nature of their interactions with TSPO and the molecular mechanism of their effects remain controversial, in part because of the lack of an atomic-resolution structure. We expressed and purified the homologue of mammalian TSPO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsTSPO), as well as a mutant form in a proposed drug binding loop, RsTSPOW38C. We characterized their binding behaviors with endogenous ligands and a series of compounds that affect apoptosis by using a sensitive tryptophan fluorescence quenching assay. Our results show that RsTSPO behaves as a d	2013	10	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Apoptosis; Binding, Competitive; Carrier Proteins; Cholesterol; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Crystallization; Isoquinolines; Membrane Proteins; Mitochondrial Membranes; Protein Multimerization; Protoporphyrins; Receptors, GABA-A; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Li	Fei
23944351	10.1111/mmi.12366	Positioning of chemosensory proteins and FtsZ through the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cell cycle.	Bacterial chemotaxis depends on signalling through large protein complexes. Each cell must inherit a complex on division, suggesting some co-ordination with cell division. In Escherichia coli the membrane-spanning chemosensory complexes are polar and new static complexes form at pre-cytokinetic sites, ensuring positioning at the new pole after division and suggesting a role for the bacterial cytoskeleton. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has both membrane-associated and cytoplasmic, chromosome-associated chemosensory complexes. We followed the relative positions of the two chemosensory complexes, FtsZ and MreB in aerobic and in photoheterotrophic R....sphaeroides cells using fluorescence microscopy. FtsZ forms polar spots after cytokinesis, which redistribute to the midcell forming nodes from which FtsZ extends circumferentially to form the Z-ring. Membrane-associated chemosensory proteins form a number of dynamic unit-clusters with mature clusters containing about 1000 CheW(3) proteins. Indivi	2014	5	19	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Division; Cell Polarity; Chemotaxis; Cytokinesis; Cytoskeletal Proteins; Genes, Bacterial; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Multigene Family; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Chiu	Sheng-Wen
23900907	10.1007/s11274-013-1445-7	A novel nitrilase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides LHS-305: cloning, heterologous expression and biochemical characterization.	In this study, a novel nitrilase gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The open reading frame of the nitrilase gene includes 969 base pairs, which encodes a putative polypeptide of 322 amino acid residues. The molecular weight of the purified native nitrilase was about 560..kDa determined by size exclusion chromatography. This nitrilase showed one single band on SDS-PAGE with a molecular weight of 40..kDa. This suggested that the native nitrilase consisted of 14 subunits with identical size. The optimal pH and temperature of the purified enzyme were 7.0 and 40....C, respectively. The kinetic parameters V max and K m toward 3-cyanopyridine were 77.5....mol..min(-1)..mg(-1) and 73.1..mmol/l, respectively. The enzyme can easily convert aliphatic nitrile and aromatic nitriles to their corresponding acids. Furthermore, this enzyme demonstrated regioselectivity in hydrolysis of aliphatic dinitriles. This specific characteristic makes this nitrila	2014	8	26	World J Microbiol Biotechnol	World journal of microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Aminohydrolases; Chromatography, Gel; Cloning, Molecular; DNA, Bacterial; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Weight; Nitriles; Open Reading Frames; Protein Subunits; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Substrate Specificity; Temperature	Wang	Hualei
23895041	10.3109/07388551.2013.809047	Mechanisms for hydrogen production by different bacteria during mixed-acid and photo-fermentation and perspectives of hydrogen production biotechnology.	H2 has a great potential as an ecologically-clean, renewable and capable fuel. It can be mainly produced via hydrogenases (Hyd) by different bacteria, especially Escherichia coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The operation direction and activity of multiple Hyd enzymes in E. coli during mixed-acid fermentation might determine H2 production; some metabolic cross-talk between Hyd enzymes is proposed. Manipulating the activity of different Hyd enzymes is an effective way to enhance H2 production by E. coli in biotechnology. Moreover, a novel approach would be the use of glycerol as feedstock in fermentation processes leading to H2 production. Mixed carbon (sugar and glycerol) utilization studies enlarge the kind of organic wastes used in biotechnology. During photo-fermentation under limited nitrogen conditions, H2 production by Rh. sphaeroides is observed when carbon and nitrogen sources are supplemented. The relationship of H2 production with H(+) transport across the membrane and membra	2015	11	4	Crit Rev Biotechnol	Critical reviews in biotechnology	Bacteria; hydrogen production biotechnology; hydrogenases; mixed carbon sources; mixed-acid and photo-fermentation; Acids; Bacteria; Biotechnology; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogenase; Light	Trchounian	Armen
23878622	10.1021/jz400438m	Timescales of Coherent Dynamics in the Light Harvesting Complex 2 (LH2) of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides.</i>	The initial dynamics of energy transfer in the light harvesting complex 2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were investigated with polarization controlled two-dimensional spectroscopy. This method allows only the coherent electronic motions to be observed revealing the timescale of dephasing among the excited states. We observe persistent coherence among all states and assign ensemble dephasing rates for the various coherences. A simple model is utilized to connect the spectroscopic transitions to the molecular structure, allowing us to distinguish coherences between the two rings of chromophores and coherences within the rings. We also compare dephasing rates between excited states to dephasing rates between the ground and excited states, revealing that the coherences between excited states dephase on a slower timescale than coherences between the ground and excited states.	2021	10	21	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	Biophysics; Dynamics; Excited States; Spectroscopy	Fidler	Andrew F
23868400	10.1007/s11120-013-9887-1	Electronic structure of the Mn-cofactor of modified bacterial reaction centers measured by electron paramagnetic resonance and electron spin echo envelope modulation spectroscopies.	The electronic structure of a Mn(II) ion bound to highly oxidizing reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied in a mutant modified to possess a metal binding site at a location comparable to the Mn4Ca cluster of photosystem II. The Mn-binding site of the previously described mutant, M2, contains three carboxylates and one His at the binding site (Thielges et al., Biochemistry 44:389-7394, 2005). The redox-active Mn-cofactor was characterized using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) spectroscopies. In the light without bound metal, the Mn-binding mutants showed an EPR spectrum characteristic of the oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer and reduced quinone whose intensity was significantly reduced due to the diminished quantum yield of charge separation in the mutant compared to wild type. In the presence of the metal and in the dark, the EPR spectrum measured at the X-band frequency of 9.4 GHz showed a distinctive spin 5/2 	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Manganese; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tufts	A A
23859536	10.1021/jp4014509	Fluorescence micro-spectroscopy study of individual photosynthetic membrane vesicles and light-harvesting complexes.	Single-molecule spectroscopy, by getting rid of unwanted ensemble averaging effects, has proved to be a very valuable tool in the research of individual photosynthetic light-harvesting (LH) complexes. However, to learn about real photosynthetic processes the minimal unit to study is a single photosynthetic membrane complete with all elements of its machinery. In the present work, the fluorescence spectra of excitons in lone intracytoplasmic (IC) photosynthetic membrane vesicles of the wild type purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides that involve peripheral (LH2) and core (RC-LH1-PufX) antenna pigment-protein complexes were investigated at ambient temperature under continuous-wave laser excitation into the Q(x) absorption band of the bacteriochlorophyll-a (BChl) chromophores at 594 nm. In parallel, the spectra of mutant membrane vesicles occupied by just one type of complexes (either LH2 or RC-LH1-PufX) and the spectra of individual purified LH2 and RC-LH1-PufX complexes were measured	2014	4	4	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Cell Membrane; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Transport Vesicles	Leiger	Kristjan
23818867	10.1371/journal.pgen.1003576	Integrative "omics"-approach discovers dynamic and regulatory features of bacterial stress responses.	Bacteria constantly face stress conditions and therefore mount specific responses to ensure adaptation and survival. Stress responses were believed to be predominantly regulated at the transcriptional level. In the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides the response to singlet oxygen is initiated by alternative sigma factors. Further adaptive mechanisms include post-transcriptional and post-translational events, which have to be considered to gain a deeper understanding of how sophisticated regulation networks operate. To address this issue, we integrated three layers of regulation: (1) total mRNA levels at different time-points revealed dynamics of the transcriptome, (2) mRNAs in polysome fractions reported on translational regulation (translatome), and (3) SILAC-based mass spectrometry was used to quantify protein abundances (proteome). The singlet oxygen stress response exhibited highly dynamic features regarding short-term effects and late adaptation, which could in part be	2013	9	10	PLoS Genet	PLoS genetics	Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heat-Shock Proteins; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Quorum Sensing; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Stress, Physiological; Transcription, Genetic	Berghoff	Bork A
23808141	10.7868/s0026365613020067	[Isolation of the photosynthetizing purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides dissociants and the study of their molecular, physiological-biochemical and morphological characteristics ].	NA	2013	8	6	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Light; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Chloride; Species Specificity; Temperature; Ultraviolet Rays	Ivanovski..	R N
23800176	10.1111/imm.12138	MD-2 is involved in the stimulation of matrix metalloproteinase-1 expression by interferon-.. and high glucose in mononuclear cells..-..a potential role of MD-2 in Toll-like receptor 4-independent signalling.	We reported recently that treatment of diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient mice with the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) antagonist Rs-LPS, a lipopolysaccharide isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, inhibited atherosclerosis. Since it is known that Rs-LPS antagonizes TLR4 by targeting TLR4 co-receptor MD-2, this finding indicates that MD-2 is a potential target for the treatment of atherosclerosis. In this study, we determined if MD-2 is involved in the gene expression regulated by signalling pathways independent of TLR4. Given that interferon-.. (IFN..) and hyperglycaemia play key roles in atherosclerosis, we determined if MD-2 is involved in IFN-.. and high-glucose-regulated gene expression in mononuclear cells. Results showed that IFN-.. and high glucose synergistically stimulated matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1), a proteinase essential for vascular tissue remodelling and atherosclerosis, in U937 mononuclear cells, but Rs-LPS inhibited the MMP-1 stimulation. To provide more evidence 	2013	12	11	Immunology	Immunology	MD-2; Toll-like receptor; inflammation; interferon-..; mononuclear cells; Animals; Antibodies, Blocking; Apolipoproteins E; Atherosclerosis; Carbohydrate Metabolism, Inborn Errors; Gene Expression Regulation; Glucose; Glycerol Kinase; Humans; Hypoadrenocorticism, Familial; Inflammation Mediators; Interferon-gamma; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Matrix Metalloproteinase 1; Mice; Mice, Knockout; Monocytes; RNA, Small Interfering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; U937 Cells	Lu	Zhongyang
23772377	10.1016/j.fob.2013.01.001	Structure and function of a bacterial Fasciclin I Domain Protein elucidates function of related cell adhesion proteins such as TGFBIp and periostin.	Fasciclin I (FAS1) domains have important roles in cell adhesion, which are not understood despite many structural and functional studies. Examples of FAS1 domain proteins include TGFBIp (..ig-h3) and periostin, which function in angiogenesis and development of cornea and bone, and are also highly expressed in cancer tissues. Here we report the structure of a single-domain bacterial fasciclin I protein, Fdp, in the free-living photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and show that it confers cell adhesion properties in vivo. A binding site is identified which includes the most highly conserved region and is adjacent to the N-terminus. By mapping this onto eukaryotic homologues, which all contain tandem FAS1 domains, it is concluded that the interaction site is normally buried in the dimer interface. This explains why corneal dystrophy mutations are concentrated in the C-terminal domain of TGFBIp and suggests new therapeutic approaches.	2013	6	18	FEBS Open Bio	FEBS open bio	Autoinhibition; Biofilm; Cell adhesion; Domain interface; FAS, fasciclin; Fdp, Fasciclin I Domain Protein; NMR structure	Moody	Robert G
23765434	10.1007/s11120-013-9866-6	Use of new strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and a modified simple culture medium to increase yield and facilitate purification of the reaction centre.	A new gene expression system was developed in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, replacing a pRK415-based system used previously. The broad host-range IPTG-inducible plasmid pIND4 was used to create the plasmid pIND4-RC1 for expression of the puhA and pufQBALMX genes, encoding the reaction centre (RC) and light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1) proteins. The strain R. sphaeroides ..RCLH was used to make a knockout of the rshI restriction endonuclease gene, enabling electroporation of DNA into the bacterium; a subsequent knockout of ppsR was made, creating the strain R. sphaeroides RCx lacking this oxygen-sensing repressor of the photosynthesis gene cluster. Using pIND4-RC1, LH1 levels were increased by a factor of about 8 over pRS1 per cell in cultures grown semi-aerobically. In addition, the ppsR knockout allowed for photosynthetic pigment-protein complex synthesis in the presence of high concentrations of molecular oxygen; here, LH1 levels per cell increased by 20 % when grown under high aeration con	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; Culture Media; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jun	D
23749149	10.1007/s10534-013-9641-3	Cobalt binding in the photosynthetic bacterium R. sphaeroides by X-ray absorption spectroscopy.	Cobalt is an important oligoelement required for bacteria; if present in high concentration, exhibits toxic effects that, depending on the microorganism under investigation, may even result in growth inhibition. The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides tolerates high cobalt concentration and bioaccumulates Co(2+) ion, mostly on the cellular surface. Very little is known on the chemical fate of the bioaccumulated cobalt, thus an X-ray absorption spectroscopy investigation was conducted on R. sphaeroides cells to gain structural insights into the Co(2+) binding to cellular components. X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy and extended X-ray absorption fine structure measurements were performed on R. sphaeroides samples containing whole cells and cell-free fractions obtained from cultures exposed to 5 mM Co(2+). An octahedral coordination geometry was found for the cobalt ion, with six oxygen-ligand atoms in the first shell. In the soluble portion of the cell, cobalt wa	2015	1	2	Biometals	Biometals : an international journal on the role of metal ions in biology, biochemistry, and medicine	Binding Sites; Cobalt; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy	Belviso	Benny D
23747858	10.2741/4154	Cell biology of bacterial sensory modules.	Despite their small size, bacterial cells possess very efficient sensory apparatus that allow them to perceive and respond to the external environment with cell movement. In enteric bacteria, these apparatus are complex lattices of different chemoreceptors working in concert and forming clusters positioned at the cell poles. Since the study of chemotaxis has been expanded to other bacterial species, examples of chemosensory systems regulating functions different than taxis have been described and chemoreceptors localizing in ways divergent from the enteric paradigm have been visualized. The scope of this review is to revise and summarize the architecture of different bacterial chemoreceptors. Then, hypotheses will be proposed on how chemoreceptor distribution in cells is coupled to specific functions and life styles in well-characterized bacterial model systems, such as Escherichia coli, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Caulobacter crescentus and Myxococcus xanthus.	2014	1	24	Front Biosci (Landmark Ed)	Frontiers in bioscience (Landmark edition)	Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Cell Biology; Cell Cycle	Mauriello	Emilia M F
23746522	10.1016/j.bpj.2013.04.026	Early bacteriopheophytin reduction in charge separation in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A question at the forefront of biophysical sciences is, to what extent do quantum effects and protein conformational changes play a role in processes such as biological sensing and energy conversion? At the heart of photosynthetic energy transduction lie processes involving ultrafast energy and electron transfers among a small number of tetrapyrrole pigments embedded in the interior of a protein. In the purple bacterial reaction center (RC), a highly efficient ultrafast charge separation takes place between a pair of bacteriochlorophylls: an accessory bacteriochlorophyll (B) and bacteriopheophytin (H). In this work, we applied ultrafast spectroscopy in the visible and near-infrared spectral region to Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs to accurately track the timing of the electron on BA and HA via the appearance of the BA and HA anion bands. We observed an unexpectedly early rise of the HA... band that challenges the accepted simple picture of stepwise electron transfer with 3 ps and 1 ps tim	2014	1	13	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Electron Transport; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zhu	Jingyi
23738868	10.1021/ja402238w	Symmetry break of special pair: photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization NMR confirms control by nonaromatic substituents.	Despite the high structural symmetry of cofactor arrangement and protein environment, light-induced electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides runs selectively over one of the two branches of cofactors. The origin of this functional symmetry break has been debated for several decades. Recently, a crucial role of the substituents has been proposed by theoretical studies [Yamasaki, H.; Takano, Y.; Nakamura, H. J. Phys. Chem. B 2008, 112, 13923-13933]. Photo-CIDNP (photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization) MAS (magic angle spinning) NMR demonstrates that indeed the peripheral atoms show opposite electronic effects on both sides of the special pair. While the aromatic system of P(L) receives electron density from its periphery, the electron density of the aromatic ring of P(M) is decreased.	2014	2	13	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photochemical Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sai Sankar Gupta	Karthick Babu
23736765	10.3390/md11061899	The extract of Rhodobacter sphaeroides inhibits melanogenesis through the MEK/ERK signaling pathway.	Reducing hyperpigmentation has been a big issue for years. Even though pigmentation is a normal mechanism protecting skin from UV-causing DNA damage and oxidative stress, it is still an aesthetic problem for many people. Bacteria can produce some compounds in response to their environment. These compounds are widely used in cosmetic and pharmaceutical applications. Some probiotics have immunomodulatory activities and modulate the symptoms of several diseases. Previously, we found that the extracts of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Lycogen...) inhibited nitric oxide production and inducible nitric-oxide synthase expression in activated macrophages. In this study, we sought to investigate an anti-melanogenic signaling pathway in ..-melanocyte stimulating hormone (..-MSH)-treated B16F10 melanoma cells and zebrafish. Treatment with Lycogen... inhibited the cellular melanin contents and expression of melanogenesis-related protein, including microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) an	2014	1	21	Mar Drugs	Marine drugs	Animals; Cell Line, Tumor; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Hyperpigmentation; MAP Kinase Signaling System; Melanins; Melanoma, Experimental; Mice; Microphthalmia-Associated Transcription Factor; Monophenol Monooxygenase; Phosphorylation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zebrafish; alpha-MSH	Liu	Wen-Sheng
23728293	10.1038/nsmb.2597	A ternary AppA-PpsR-DNA complex mediates light regulation of photosynthesis-related gene expression.	The anoxygenic phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides uses different energy sources, depending on environmental conditions including aerobic respiration or, in the absence of oxygen, photosynthesis. Photosynthetic genes are repressed at high oxygen tension, but at intermediate levels their partial expression prepares the bacterium for using light energy. Illumination, however, enhances repression under semiaerobic conditions. Here, we describe molecular details of two proteins mediating oxygen and light control of photosynthesis-gene expression: the light-sensing antirepressor AppA and the transcriptional repressor PpsR. Our crystal structures of both proteins and their complex and hydrogen/deuterium-exchange data show that light activation of AppA-PpsR2 affects the PpsR effector region within the complex. DNA binding studies demonstrate the formation of a light-sensitive ternary AppA-PpsR-DNA complex. We discuss implications of these results for regulation by light and oxygen,	2013	9	10	Nat Struct Mol Biol	Nature structural &amp; molecular biology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Gel; Conserved Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Models, Molecular; Molecular Docking Simulation; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Interaction Mapping; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Winkler	Andreas
23727839	10.1093/hmg/ddt232	Secondary coenzyme Q10 deficiency and oxidative stress in cultured fibroblasts from patients with riboflavin responsive multiple Acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiency.	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is essential for the energy production of the cells and as an electron transporter in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. CoQ10 links the mitochondrial fatty acid ..-oxidation to the respiratory chain by accepting electrons from electron transfer flavoprotein-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF-QO). Recently, it was shown that a group of patients with the riboflavin responsive form of multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation deficiency (RR-MADD) carrying inherited amino acid variations in ETF-QO also had secondary CoQ10 deficiency with beneficial effects of CoQ10 treatment, thus adding RR-MADD to an increasing number of diseases involving secondary CoQ10 deficiency. In this study, we show that moderately decreased CoQ10 levels in fibroblasts from six unrelated RR-MADD patients were associated with increased levels of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). Treatment with CoQ10, but not with riboflavin, could normalize the CoQ10 level and decrease the level of ROS in the 	2014	3	18	Hum Mol Genet	Human molecular genetics	Acyl Coenzyme A; Ataxia; Bacterial Proteins; Cells, Cultured; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Fibroblasts; Genetic Variation; Humans; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Mitochondria; Mitochondrial Diseases; Multiple Acyl Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency; Muscle Weakness; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidative Stress; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-NH Group Donors; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Riboflavin; Ubiquinone	Cornelius	Nanna
23717454	10.1371/journal.pone.0063617	Bacterial chemotaxis: introverted or extroverted? A comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of basic forms of metabolism-based and metabolism-independent behavior using a computational model.	Using a minimal model of metabolism, we examine the limitations of behavior that is (a) solely in response to environmental phenomena or (b) solely in response to metabolic dynamics, showing that basic forms of each of these kinds of behavior are incapable of driving survival-prolonging behavior in certain situations. Inspired by experimental evidence of concurrent metabolism-based and metabolism-independent chemotactic mechanisms in Escherichia coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we then investigate how metabolism-independent and metabolism-based sensitivities can be integrated into a single behavioral response, demonstrating that a simple switching mechanism can be sufficient to effectively integrate metabolism-based and metabolism-independent behaviors. Finally, we use a spatial simulation of bacteria to show that the investigated forms of behavior produce different spatio-temporal patterns that are influenced by the metabolic-history of the bacteria. We suggest that these patterns co	2014	4	17	PLoS One	PloS one	Chemotaxis; Computer Simulation; Escherichia coli; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Egbert	Matthew D
23715773	10.1007/s11120-013-9850-1	Affinity and activity of non-native quinones at the Q(B) site of bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	Purple, photosynthetic reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteria use ubiquinone (UQ10) as both primary (Q(A)) and secondary (Q(B)) electron acceptors. Many quinones reconstitute Q(A) function, while a few will act as Q(B). Nine quinones were tested for their ability to bind and reconstitute Q(A) and Q(B) functions. Only ubiquinone (UQ) reconstitutes both functions in the same protein. The affinities of the non-native quinones for the Q(B) site were determined by a competitive inhibition assay. The affinities of benzoquinones, naphthoquinone (NQ), and 2-methyl-NQ for the Q(B) site are 7 .. 3 times weaker than that at Q(A) site. However, di-ortho-substituted NQs and anthraquinone bind tightly to the Q(A) site (K d ... 200 nM), and ...1,000 times more weakly to the Q(B) site, perhaps setting a limit on the size of the site. With a low-potential electron donor, 2-methyl, 3-dimethylamino-1,4-NQ, (Me-diMeAm-NQ) at Q(A), Q(B) reduction is 260 meV, more favorable than with UQ as Q	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron Transport; Models, Theoretical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Zhang	Xinyu
23708977	10.1007/s11120-013-9851-0	Membrane development in purple photosynthetic bacteria in response to alterations in light intensity and oxygen tension.	Studies on membrane development in purple bacteria during adaptation to alterations in light intensity and oxygen tension are reviewed. Anoxygenic phototrophic such as the purple ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides have served as simple, dynamic, and experimentally accessible model organisms for studies of the photosynthetic apparatus. A major landmark in photosynthesis research, which dramatically illustrates this point, was provided by the determination of the X-ray structure of the reaction center (RC) in Blastochloris viridis (Deisenhofer and Michel, EMBO J 8:2149-2170, 1989), once it was realized that this represented the general structure for the photosystem II RC present in all oxygenic phototrophs. This seminal advance, together with a considerable body of subsequent research on the light-harvesting (LH) and electron transfer components of the photosynthetic apparatus has provided a firm basis for the current understanding of how phototrophs acclimate to alterations in l	2014	6	17	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Intracellular Membranes; Light; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared; Thylakoids	Niederman	Robert A
23695564	10.1107/S1744309113006398	Expression, purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray structure analysis of wild-type and L(M196)H-mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centres.	The electron and proton transport mediated by protein-bound cofactors in photosynthesis have been investigated by various methods in order to determine the energetics, the dynamics and the pathway of this process. In purple bacteria, primary photosynthetic charge separation and the build-up of a proton gradient across the periplasmic membrane are catalyzed by the photosynthetic reaction centre (RC). Here, the purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of wild-type and L(M196)H-mutant RCs of Rhodobacter sphaeroides are presented, enabling study of the influence of the protein environment of the primary electron donor on the spectral properties and photochemical activity of the RC.	2014	2	6	Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun	Acta crystallographica. Section F, Structural biology and crystallization communications	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacteriochlorophyll; photosynthetic reaction centres; primary electron donor; site-directed mutagenesis; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gabdulkhakov	A G
23688348	10.1021/jp400132k	The protein environment of the bacteriopheophytin anion modulates charge separation and charge recombination in bacterial reaction centers.	The kinetics and pathway of electron transfer has been explored in a series of reaction center mutants from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, in which the leucine residue at M214 near the bacteriopheophytin cofactor in the A-branch has been replaced with methionine, cysteine, alanine, and glycine. These amino acids have substantially different volumes, both from each other and, except for methionine, from the native leucine. Though the mutation site of M214 is close to the bacteriopheophytin cofactor, which is involved in the electron transfer, none of the mutations alter the cofactor composition of the reaction center and the primary charge separation reaction is essentially undisturbed. However, the kinetics of electron transfer from HA(-) ... QA becomes both slower and substantially heterogeneous in three of the four mutants. The decreased HA(-) ... QA electron transfer rate allows charge recombination between P(+) and HA(-) to compete with the forward reaction, resulting in a drop in the ov	2014	1	27	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Anions; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Pheophytins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pan	Jie
23685111	10.1016/j.bbabio.2013.05.002	Mutational control of bioenergetics of bacterial reaction center probed by delayed fluorescence.	The free energy gap between the metastable charge separated state P(+)QA(-) and the excited bacteriochlorophyll dimer P* was measured by delayed fluorescence of the dimer in mutant reaction center proteins of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The mutations were engineered both at the donor (L131L, M160L, M197F and M202H) and acceptor (M265I and M234E) sides. While the donor side mutations changed systematically the number of H-bonds to P, the acceptor side mutations modified the energetics of QA by altering the van-der-Waals and electronic interactions (M265IT) and H-bond network to the acidic cluster around QB (M234EH, M234EL, M234EA and M234ER). All mutants decreased the free energy gap of the wild type RC (~890meV), i.e. destabilized the P(+)QA(-) charge pair by 60-110meV at pH8. Multiple modifications in the hydrogen bonding pattern to P resulted in systematic changes of the free energy gap. The destabilization showed no pH-dependence (M234 mutants) or slight in	2013	12	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	BChl; BPhe; Bacterial photosynthesis; Charge recombination; DL; H-bond network; LDAO; Light-induced free energy changes; N,N...-dimethyldodecylamine N-oxide; P, primary electron donor; Q(A) and Q(B); RC; Rba; Reaction center protein; Rhodobacter; Triton X-100; UQ; WT; a non-covalently linked bacteriochlorophyll dimer; bacteriopheophytin; delayed light; monomeric bacteriochlorophyll; octylphenol polyethylene glycol ether; primary and secondary quinones; reaction center; ubiquinone; wild type; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Energy Metabolism; Fluorescence; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutant Proteins; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Onidas	Delphine
23651460	10.1186/1475-2859-12-45	p-Hydroxycinnamic acid production directly from cellulose using endoglucanase- and tyrosine ammonia lyase-expressing Streptomyces lividans.	p-Hydroxycinnamic acid (pHCA) is an aromatic compound that serves as a starting material for the production of many commercially valuable chemicals, such as fragrances and pharmaceuticals, and is also used in the synthesis of thermostable polymers. However, chemical synthesis of pHCA is both costly and harmful to the environment. Although pHCA production using microbes has been widely studied, there remains a need for more cost-effective methods, such as the use of biomass as a carbon source. In this study, we produced pHCA using tyrosine ammonia lyase-expressing Streptomyces lividans. In order to improve pHCA productivity from cellulose, we constructed a tyrosine ammonia lyase- and endoglucanase (EG)-expressing S. lividans transformant and used it to produce pHCA from cellulose. A Streptomyces lividans transformant was constructed to express tyrosine ammonia lyase derived from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsTAL). The transformant produced 786 or 736 mg/L of pHCA after 7 days of cultivatio	2015	3	9	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Ammonia-Lyases; Bacterial Proteins; Cellobiose; Cellulase; Cellulose; Coumaric Acids; Glucose; Plasmids; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Streptomyces lividans	Kawai	Yoshifumi
23643727	10.1016/j.bbabio.2013.04.007	Intermediates generated during the reaction of reduced Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase with dioxygen.	Cytochrome oxidase is one of the functionally most intriguing redox-driven proton pumps. During the last decade our increased understanding of the system has greatly benefited from theoretical calculations and modeling in the framework of three-dimensional structures of cytochrome c oxidases from different species. Because these studies are based on results from experiments, it is important that any ambiguities in the conclusions extracted from these experiments are discussed and elucidated. In a recent study Szundi et al. (Szundi et al. Biochemistry 2012, 51, 9302) investigated the reaction of the reduced Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase with O2 and arrived at conclusions different from those derived from earlier investigations. In this short communication we compare these very recent data to those obtained from earlier studies and discuss the origin of the differences.	2013	8	8	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Brzezinski	Peter
23627338	10.1021/jp401195t	Proton displacements coupled to primary electron transfer in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center.	Using first-principles molecular dynamics (AIMD) and constrained density functional theory (CDFT) we identify the pathway of primary electron transfer in the R. Sphaeroides reaction center from the special pair excited state (P*) to the accessory bacteriochlorophyll (BA). Previous AIMD simulations on the special pair (PLPM) predicted a charge-transfer intermediate formation through the excited-state relaxation along a reaction coordinate characterized by the rotation of an axial histidine (HisM202). To account for the full electron transfer we extend the model to include the primary acceptor BA. In this extended model, the LUMO is primarily localized on the acceptor BA and extends over an interstitial water (water A) that is known to influence the rate of electron transfer (Potter et al. Biochemistry 2005 280, 27155-27164). A vibrational analysis of the dynamical trajectories gives a frequency of 30-35 cm(-1) for a molecular motion involving the hydrogen-bond network around water A, in	2014	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Eisenmayer	Thomas J
23617824	10.1186/1471-2105-14-134	Bacterial cell identification in differential interference contrast microscopy images.	Microscopy image segmentation lays the foundation for shape analysis, motion tracking, and classification of biological objects. Despite its importance, automated segmentation remains challenging for several widely used non-fluorescence, interference-based microscopy imaging modalities. For example in differential interference contrast microscopy which plays an important role in modern bacterial cell biology. Therefore, new revolutions in the field require the development of tools, technologies and work-flows to extract and exploit information from interference-based imaging data so as to achieve new fundamental biological insights and understanding. We have developed and evaluated a high-throughput image analysis and processing approach to detect and characterize bacterial cells and chemotaxis proteins. Its performance was evaluated using differential interference contrast and fluorescence microscopy images of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Results demonstrate that the proposed approach pro	2014	2	6	BMC Bioinformatics	BMC bioinformatics	Bacteria; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Microscopy, Interference; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Obara	Boguslaw
23615195	10.1159/000346520	Structural and functional proteomics of intracytoplasmic membrane assembly in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The results of a detailed structural and functional proteomic analysis of intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) assembly in the model purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides are reviewed in this report. Proteomics approaches have focused upon identification of membrane proteins temporally expressed during ICM development and spatially localized within the internal cell membranes, together with their structural and functional correlates. For the examination of temporal protein expression, procedures were established for the induction of ICM formation at low oxygen tension and for ICM remodeling in cells adapting to low intensity illumination, which permitted isolation by rate-zone sedimentation of ICM growth initiation sites (CM invaginations) in an upper-pigmented band (UPB), together with more mature ICM vesicles (chromatophores) as the main band. Nondenaturing clear native gel electrophoresis of the chromatophore fraction gave rise to four pigmented bands: the top and bottom 	2014	1	6	J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of molecular microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthesis; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Woronowicz	Kamil
23575738	10.1007/s11120-013-9821-6	The three-dimensional structures of bacterial reaction centers.	This review presents a broad overview of the research that enabled the structure determination of the bacterial reaction centers from Blastochloris viridis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, with a focus on the contributions from Duysens, Clayton, and Feher. Early experiments performed in the laboratory of Duysens and others demonstrated the utility of spectroscopic techniques and the presence of photosynthetic complexes in both oxygenic and anoxygenic photosynthesis. The laboratories of Clayton and Feher led efforts to isolate and characterize the bacterial reaction centers. The availability of well-characterized preparations of pure and stable reaction centers allowed the crystallization and subsequent determination of the structures using X-ray diffraction. The three-dimensional structures of reaction centers revealed an overall arrangement of two symmetrical branches of cofactors surrounded by transmembrane helices from the L and M subunits, which also are related by the same twofold sym	2014	11	28	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial Proteins; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; X-Ray Diffraction	Olson	T L
25167316	10.1103/PhysRevLett.110.158104	Rotation-induced polymorphic transitions in bacterial flagella.	Bacteria propel themselves with the help of rotating helical flagella. They change their swimming direction during tumbling events in order to increase, for example, their supply of nutrients (chemotaxis). During tumbling a bacterial flagellum assumes different polymorphic states. Based on a continuum model for the motor-flagellum system, we demonstrate that a changing motor torque can initiate these polymorphic transformations. In particular, we investigate the run-and-stop tumble strategy of Rhodobacter sphaeroides which uses a coiled-to-normal transition in its single flagellum. We also show that torque reversal in single-flagellated Escherichia coli generates a normal-to-curly I transition as observed for tumbling E. coli that swim with a bundle of several flagella. 	2015	5	12	Phys Rev Lett	Physical review letters	Escherichia coli; Flagella; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Swimming; Torque	Vogel	Reinhard
23505358	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002949	Split histidine kinases enable ultrasensitivity and bistability in two-component signaling networks.	Bacteria sense and respond to their environment through signaling cascades generally referred to as two-component signaling networks. These networks comprise histidine kinases and their cognate response regulators. Histidine kinases have a number of biochemical activities: ATP binding, autophosphorylation, the ability to act as a phosphodonor for their response regulators, and in many cases the ability to catalyze the hydrolytic dephosphorylation of their response regulator. Here, we explore the functional role of "split kinases" where the ATP binding and phosphotransfer activities of a conventional histidine kinase are split onto two distinct proteins that form a complex. We find that this unusual configuration can enable ultrasensitivity and bistability in the signal-response relationship of the resulting system. These dynamics are displayed under a wide parameter range but only when specific biochemical requirements are met. We experimentally show that one of these requirements, nam	2013	11	8	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Bacterial Proteins; Enzyme Stability; Histidine Kinase; Models, Biological; Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases; Phosphorylation; Protein Kinases; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Amin	Munia
23480277	10.1021/bi400207m	Role of Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction center residue M214 in the composition, absorbance properties, and conformations of H(A) and B(A) cofactors.	In the native reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the side chain of (M)L214 projects orthogonally toward the plane and into the center of the A branch bacteriopheophytin (BPhe) macrocycle. The possibility that this side chain is responsible for the dechelation of the central Mg(2+) of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) was investigated by replacement of (M)214 with residues possessing small, nonpolar side chains that can neither coordinate nor block access to the central metal ion. The (M)L214 side chain was also replaced with Cys, Gln, and Asn to evaluate further the requirements for assembly of the RC with BChl in the HA pocket. Photoheterotrophic growth studies showed no difference in growth rates of the (M)214 nonpolar mutants at a low light intensity, but the growth of the amide-containing mutants was impaired. The absorbance spectra of purified RCs indicated that although absorbance changes are associated with the nonpolar mutations, the nonpolar mutant RC pigment compositio	2013	5	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Saer	Rafael G
23477295	10.1021/jp4011235	Analysis of the kinetics of P+ HA- recombination in membrane-embedded wild-type and mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers between 298 and 77 K indicates that the adjacent negatively charged QA ubiquinone modulates the free energy of P+ HA- and may influence the rate of the protein dielectric response.	Time-resolved spectroscopic studies of recombination of the P(+)HA(-) radical pair in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides give an opportunity to study protein dynamics triggered by light and occurring over the lifetime of P(+)HA(-). The state P(+)HA(-) is formed after the ultrafast light-induced electron transfer from the primary donor pair of bacteriochlorophylls (P) to the acceptor bacteriopheophytin (HA). In order to increase the lifetime of this state, and thus increase the temporal window for the examination of protein dynamics, it is possible to block forward electron transfer from HA(-) to the secondary electron acceptor QA. In this contribution, the dynamics of P(+)HA(-) recombination were compared at a range of temperatures from 77 K to room temperature, electron transfer from HA(-) to QA being blocked either by prereduction of QA or by genetic removal of QA. The observed P(+)HA(-) charge recombination was significantly slower in the QA-deficient	2014	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Mutation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Static Electricity; Temperature; Time Factors; Ubiquinone	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
23452037	10.1021/jp3121319	Bacteriopheophytin a in the active branch of the reaction center of rhodobacter sphaeroides is not disturbed by the protein matrix as shown by 13C photo-CIDNP MAS NMR.	The electronic structure of bacteriopheophytin a (BPhe a), the primary electron acceptor (..A) in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, is investigated by photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectroscopy at atomic resolution. By using various isotope labeling systems, introduced by adding different (13)C selectively labeled ..-aminolevulinic acid precursors in the growing medium of R. sphaeroides wild type (WT), we were able to extract light-induced (13)C NMR signals originating from the primary electron acceptor. The assignments are backed by theoretical calculations. By comparison of these chemical shifts to those obtained from monomeric BPhe a in solution, it is demonstrated that ..A in the active branch appears to be electronically close to free bacteriopheophytin. Hence, there is little effect of the protein surrounding on the cofactor functionally which contributes with 	2013	9	12	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Aminolevulinic Acid; Carbon Isotopes; Isotope Labeling; Light; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Pheophytins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sai Sankar Gupta	Karthick Babu
23445435	10.1021/ic301660e	X-ray absorption spectroscopy of a quantitatively Mo(V) dimethyl sulfoxide reductase species.	Molybdenum K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) has been used to probe the structure of a Mo(V) species that has been suggested to be a catalytic intermediate in the reaction of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductase with the alternative substrate trimethylamine N-oxide (Bennet et al. Eur. J. Biochem. 1994, 255, 321-331; Cobb et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2005, 280, 11007-11017; Mtei, et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 9672-9774). The oxidized Mo(VI) state of DMSO reductase has previously been structurally characterized as being six coordinate, with four sulfurs from pyranopterin dithiolene molybdenum cofactors, a terminal oxygen ligand, and an additional oxygen coordination from a serine residue. We find the most plausible structure for the Mo(V) active site is a five-coordinate species with four sulfur donors from the two pyranopterin dithiolene ligands, with an average Mo-S bond-length of 2.35 .., plus a single oxygen donor at 1.99 .., very likely from an Mo-OH ligand. Our results thus 	2013	9	10	Inorg Chem	Inorganic chemistry	Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Molybdenum; Oxidoreductases; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy	Pushie	M Jake
23428397	10.1016/j.bbabio.2013.02.007	Catalytically-relevant electron transfer between two hemes bL in the hybrid cytochrome bc1-like complex containing a fusion of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and capsulatus cytochromes b.	To address mechanistic questions about the functioning of dimeric cytochrome bc1 new genetic approaches have recently been developed. They were specifically designed to enable construction of asymmetrically-mutated variants suitable for functional studies. One approach exploited a fusion of two cytochromes b that replaced the separate subunits in the dimer. The fusion protein, built from two copies of the same cytochrome b of purple bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus, served as a template to create a series of asymmetrically-mutated cytochrome bc1-like complexes (B-B) which, through kinetic studies, disclosed several important principles of dimer engineering. Here, we report on construction of another fusion protein complex that adds a new tool to investigate dimeric function of the enzyme through the asymmetrically mutated forms of the protein. This complex (BS-B) contains a hybrid protein that combines two different cytochromes b: one coming from R. capsulatus and the other - from a cl	2013	7	23	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Catalysis; Cytochromes b; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Heme; Light; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Czapla	Monika
23392901	10.1007/s12576-012-0244-5	Stage-dependent anti-allodynic effects of intrathecal Toll-like receptor 4 antagonists in a rat model of cancer induced bone pain.	It has been reported that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), which plays an important role in glial activation in neuropathic pain, is significantly increased in cancer pain. The present study was designed to assess the role of TLR4 in cancer-induced bone pain (CIBP) by intrathecal administration of TLR4 signaling pathway blocker naloxone or lipopolysaccharide Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS). The rats developed significant mechanical allodynia from day 8 after intratibial Walker 256 inoculation. Intrathecal injection of naloxone or LPS-RS at day 8 significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia as shown by increased paw withdrawal thresholds. In contrast, the same pharmacological treatment showed no or slight pain relieving effect at day 16. Our findings demonstrate that the spinal TLR4 signaling pathway contributes to the mechanism underlying CIBP in a stage-dependent manner in rats, and it may be an efficacious target at early stage for the treatment in the future.	2013	10	30	J Physiol Sci	The journal of physiological sciences : JPS	Animals; Bone Neoplasms; Carcinoma 256, Walker; Female; Hyperalgesia; Injections, Spinal; Lipopolysaccharides; Naloxone; Neuralgia; Rats; Rats, Wistar; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Xiu
23392242	10.4161/rna.23769	A mixed incoherent feed-forward loop contributes to the regulation of bacterial photosynthesis genes.	Living cells use a variety of regulatory network motifs for accurate gene expression in response to changes in their environment or during differentiation processes. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a complex regulatory network controls expression of photosynthesis genes to guarantee optimal energy supply on one hand and to avoid photooxidative stress on the other hand. Recently, we identified a mixed incoherent feed-forward loop comprising the transcription factor PrrA, the sRNA PcrZ and photosynthesis target genes as part of this regulatory network. This point-of-view provides a comparison to other described feed-forward loops and discusses the physiological relevance of PcrZ in more detail. 	2014	7	28	RNA Biol	RNA biology	Rhodobacter; feed-forward loop; gene regulation; oxygen tension; photosynthesis; redox regulation; small RNAs; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Regulatory Networks; Genes, Bacterial; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Small Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Mank	Nils N
23387626	10.1063/1.4789346	Protein dynamics modulated electron transfer kinetics in early stage photosynthesis.	A recent experiment has probed the electron transfer kinetics in the early stage of photosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides for the reaction center of wild type and different mutants [Science 316, 747 (2007)]. By monitoring the changes in the transient absorption of the donor-acceptor pair at 280 and 930 nm, both of which show non-exponential temporal decay, the experiment has provided a strong evidence that the initial electron transfer kinetics is modulated by the dynamics of protein backbone. In this work, we present a model where the electron transfer kinetics of the donor-acceptor pair is described along the reaction coordinate associated with the distance fluctuations in a protein backbone. The stochastic evolution of the reaction coordinate is described in terms of a non-Markovian generalized Langevin equation with a memory kernel and Gaussian colored noise, both of which are completely described in terms of the microscopics of the protein normal modes. This model provides exc	2013	7	16	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kundu	Prasanta
23384342	10.3109/08923973.2013.764503	Pretreatment with lipopolysaccharide ameliorates Pseudomonas exotoxin A-induced hepatotoxicity in rats.	Liver injury can be induced by various hepatotoxicants, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (PEA). Our previous study indicated that PEA-induced rat hepatotoxicity was T cells and Kupffer cells dependent. Several reports have demonstrated that non-toxic doses of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can protect liver against the chemicals-induced toxicity such as acetaminophen and concanavalin-A. This study aimed to investigate the protecting mechanisms of LPS on PEA-induced hepatotoxicity. Rats pretreated with LPS (40.....g/kg, 12...h before PEA admission) significantly decreased animal mortality, serum enzyme (ALT, AST and T-bil) activities, histopathological changes and hepatocytes apoptosis following challenge with PEA. The concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-..), interferon-gamma (IFN-..) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) were reduced, but IL-6 and IL-10 were increased in the serum. In addition, prior treatment of these LPS-pretreated rats with gadolinium chloride (GdCl	2014	1	14	Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol	Immunopharmacology and immunotoxicology	ADP Ribose Transferases; Alanine Transaminase; Animals; Apoptosis; Aspartate Aminotransferases; Bacterial Toxins; Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury; Drug Interactions; Exotoxins; Gadolinium; Hepatocytes; Interferon-gamma; Interleukins; Kupffer Cells; Lipopolysaccharides; Liver; Male; Pseudomonas; Rats; Rats, Nude; Rats, Wistar; T-Lymphocytes; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha; Virulence Factors	Chiu	Chien-Chao
23379560	10.1134/S0006297913010070	Charge separation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant reaction centers with increased midpoint potential of the primary electron donor.	Primary charge separation dynamics in four mutant reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides with increased midpoint potential of the primary electron donor P (M160LH, L131LH, M197FH, and M160LH + L131LH + M197FH) have been studied by femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy at room temperature. The decay of the excited singlet state in the wild-type and mutant RCs is complex and has two main exponential components, which indicates heterogeneity of electron transfer rates or the presence of reverse electron transfer reactions. The radical anion band of monomeric bacteriochlorophyll B(A) at 1020 nm was first observed in transient absorbance difference spectra of single mutants. This band remains visible, although with somewhat reduced amplitude, even at delays up to tens of picoseconds when stimulated emission is absent and the reaction centers are in the P(+)H(A)(-) state. The presence of this band in this time period indicates the existence of thermody	2014	8	11	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Electron Transport; Electrons; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Temperature; Time Factors	Khmelnitskiy	A Yu
23365194	10.1098/rsif.2012.1001	Response kinetics in the complex chemotaxis signalling pathway of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Chemotaxis is one of the best-characterized signalling systems in biology. It is the mechanism by which bacteria move towards optimal environments and is implicated in biofilm formation, pathogenesis and symbiosis. The properties of the bacterial chemosensory response have been described in detail for the single chemosensory pathway of Escherichia coli. We have characterized the properties of the chemosensory response of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an ..-proteobacterium with multiple chemotaxis pathways, under two growth conditions allowing the effects of protein expression levels and cell architecture to be investigated. Using tethered cell assays, we measured the responses of the system to step changes in concentration of the attractant propionate and show that, independently of the growth conditions, R. sphaeroides is chemotactic over at least five orders of magnitude and has a sensing profile following Weber's Law. Mathematical modelling also shows that, as E. coli, R. sphaeroides is 	2013	7	5	J R Soc Interface	Journal of the Royal Society, Interface	Chemotaxis; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Kinetics; Models, Biological; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Time Factors	Kojadinovic	Mila
23351100	10.1021/bi3014505	A conserved amphipathic ligand binding region influences k-path-dependent activity of cytochrome C oxidase.	A conserved, crystallographically defined bile acid binding site was originally identified in the membrane domain of mammalian and bacterial cytochrome c oxidase (CcO). Current studies show other amphipathic molecules including detergents, fatty acids, steroids, and porphyrins bind to this site and affect the already 50% inhibited activity of the E101A mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides CcO as well as altering the activity of wild-type and bovine enzymes. Dodecyl maltoside, Triton X100, C12E8, lysophophatidylcholine, and CHOBIMALT detergents further inhibit RsCcO E101A, with lesser inhibition observed in wild-type. The detergent inhibition is overcome in the presence of micromolar concentrations of steroids and porphyrin analogues including deoxycholate, cholesteryl hemisuccinate, bilirubin, and protoporphyrin IX. In addition to alleviating detergent inhibition, amphipathic carboxylates including arachidonic, docosahexanoic, and phytanic acids stimulate the activity of E101A to wild-typ	2013	4	15	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bile Acids and Salts; Bilirubin; Binding Sites; Deoxycholic Acid; Detergents; Electron Transport Complex IV; Maltose; Molecular Docking Simulation; Point Mutation; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protein Subunits; Protoporphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Hiser	Carrie
23303509	10.1093/bioinformatics/bts723	ALE: a generic assembly likelihood evaluation framework for assessing the accuracy of genome and metagenome assemblies.	Researchers need general purpose methods for objectively evaluating the accuracy of single and metagenome assemblies and for automatically detecting any errors they may contain. Current methods do not fully meet this need because they require a reference, only consider one of the many aspects of assembly quality or lack statistical justification, and none are designed to evaluate metagenome assemblies. In this article, we present an Assembly Likelihood Evaluation (ALE) framework that overcomes these limitations, systematically evaluating the accuracy of an assembly in a reference-independent manner using rigorous statistical methods. This framework is comprehensive, and integrates read quality, mate pair orientation and insert length (for paired-end reads), sequencing coverage, read alignment and k-mer frequency. ALE pinpoints synthetic errors in both single and metagenomic assemblies, including single-base errors, insertions/deletions, genome rearrangements and chimeric assemblies pre	2013	8	12	Bioinformatics	Bioinformatics (Oxford, England)	Bayes Theorem; Escherichia coli; Genetic Variation; Genomics; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Humans; Metagenomics; Models, Statistical; Probability; Software	Clark	Scott C
23300250	10.1128/mBio.00541-12	Proteins needed to activate a transcriptional response to the reactive oxygen species singlet oxygen.	Singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) is a reactive oxygen species generated by energy transfer from one or more excited donors to molecular oxygen. Many biomolecules are prone to oxidation by (1)O(2), and cells have evolved systems to protect themselves from damage caused by this compound. One way that the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides protects itself from (1)O(2) is by inducing a transcriptional response controlled by ChrR, an anti-.. factor which releases an alternative sigma factor, ..(E), in the presence of (1)O(2). Here we report that induction of ..(E)-dependent gene transcription is decreased in the presence of (1)O(2) when two conserved genes in the ..(E) regulon are deleted, including one encoding a cyclopropane fatty acid synthase homologue (RSP2144) or one encoding a protein of unknown function (RSP1091). Thus, we conclude that RSP2144 and RSP1091 are each necessary to increase ..(E) activity in the presence of (1)O(2). In addition, we found that unlike in wild-type c	2013	6	10	mBio	mBio	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidative Stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Singlet Oxygen; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Nam	Tae-Wook
23293140	10.1098/rsif.2012.0935	Transient dynamic phenotypes as criteria for model discrimination: fold-change detection in Rhodobacter sphaeroides chemotaxis.	The chemotaxis pathway of the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides shares many similarities with that of Escherichia coli. It exhibits robust adaptation and has several homologues of the latter's chemotaxis proteins. Recent theoretical results have correctly predicted that the E. coli output behaviour is unchanged under scaling of its ligand input signal; this property is known as fold-change detection (FCD). In the light of recent experimental results suggesting that R. sphaeroides may also show FCD, we present theoretical assumptions on the R. sphaeroides chemosensory dynamics that can be shown to yield FCD behaviour. Furthermore, it is shown that these assumptions make FCD a property of this system that is robust to structural and parametric variations in the chemotaxis pathway, in agreement with experimental results. We construct and examine models of the full chemotaxis pathway that satisfy these assumptions and reproduce experimental time-series data from earlier studies. We then pr	2013	6	19	J R Soc Interface	Journal of the Royal Society, Interface	Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hamadeh	Abdullah
23291753	10.1271/bbb.120601	Transcriptome response to nitrosative stress in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The facultative photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 has a nitric oxide-response transcriptional regulator, NnrR, and nitric oxide reductase (NOR), although it is incapable of denitrification. To investigate at the genomic level the physiological response to nitrosative stress of R. sphaeroides, the transcriptome profiles of strain 2.4.1 and its NnrR mutant were analyzed before and after exposure to nitrosating agents, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP), under microaerobic conditions. GSNO and SNP affected the expression of different but overlapping sets of genes. Only a limited number of these genes, including the genes for NOR, were under the control of NnrR, and those genes were significantly upregulated by GSNO and by SNP. The oxygen-responsive regulator FnrL and a predicted iron-sensing regulator were perhaps also involved in the transcriptome response to reactive nitrogen species. Some genes, including hemN for heme biosynthesis, were sub	2013	7	5	Biosci Biotechnol Biochem	Bioscience, biotechnology, and biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Coproporphyrinogen Oxidase; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutation; Nitric Oxide; Nitric Oxide Donors; Nitroprusside; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; S-Nitrosoglutathione; Trans-Activators; Transcriptome	Arai	Hiroyuki
23252506	10.1042/BJ20121723	Identification of an 8-vinyl reductase involved in bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and evidence for the existence of a third distinct class of the enzyme.	The purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides utilises bacteriochlorophyll a for light harvesting and photochemistry. The synthesis of this photopigment includes the reduction of a vinyl group at the C8 position to an ethyl group, catalysed by a C8-vinyl reductase. An active form of this enzyme has not been identified in R. sphaeroides, but its genome contains two candidate ORFs (open reading frames) similar to those reported to encode C8-vinyl reductases in the closely related Rhodobacter capsulatus (bchJ), and in plants and green sulfur bacteria (rsp_3070). To determine which gene encodes the active enzyme, knock-out mutants in both genes were constructed. Surprisingly, mutants in which one or both genes were deleted still retained the ability to synthesize C8-ethyl bacteriochlorophyll. These genes were subsequently expressed in a cyanobacterial mutant that cannot synthesize C8-ethyl chlorophyll a. R. sphaeroides rsp_3070 was able to restore synthesis of the WT (wild-type	2013	4	11	Biochem J	The Biochemical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Genes, Bacterial; Open Reading Frames; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Canniffe	Daniel P
23252338	10.1021/bi3015373	Light-induced subunit dissociation by a light-oxygen-voltage domain photoreceptor from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) domains bind a flavin chromophore to serve as blue light sensors in a wide range of eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteins. LOV domains are associated with a variable effector domain or a separate protein signaling partner to execute a wide variety of functions that include regulation of kinases, generation of anti-sigma factor antagonists, and regulation of circadian clocks. Here we present the crystal structure, photocycle kinetics, association properties, and spectroscopic features of a full-length LOV domain protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsLOV). RsLOV exhibits N- and C-terminal helical extensions that form an unusual helical bundle at its dimer interface with some resemblance to the helical transducer of sensory rhodopsin II. The blue light-induced conformational changes of RsLOV revealed from a comparison of light- and dark-state crystal structures support a shared signaling mechanism of LOV domain proteins that originates with the light-induced for	2013	3	7	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Flavins; Light; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Oxygen; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology	Conrad	Karen S
23083095	10.1111/bph.12028	Pharmacological characterization of LPS and opioid interactions at the toll-like receptor 4.	Previous work in our laboratory showed opioid agents inhibit cytokine expression in astrocytes. Recently, Watkins and colleagues hypothesized that opioid agonists activate toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signalling, which leads to neuroinflammation. To test this hypothesis, we characterized LPS and opioid effects on TLR4 signalling in reporter cells. NF-..B reporter cells expressing high levels of TLR4 were used to compare LPS and opioid effects on NF-..B activation, a pathway activated by TLR4 stimulation. LPS increased TLR4 signalling in a concentration-dependent manner and was antagonized by LPS antagonist (LPS-RS, from Rhodobacter sphaeroides). A concentration ratio analysis showed that LPS-RS was a competitive antagonist. The opioid agonists, morphine and fentanyl, produced minor activation of TLR4 signalling when given alone. When tested following LPS stimulation, opioid agonists inhibited NF-..B activation but this inhibition was not blocked by the general opioid antagonist, naloxon	2013	8	23	Br J Pharmacol	British journal of pharmacology	Analgesics, Opioid; Binding, Competitive; Drug Antagonism; Escherichia coli K12; Genes, Reporter; HEK293 Cells; Humans; Kinetics; Ligands; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; NF-kappa B p50 Subunit; Narcotic Antagonists; Nerve Tissue Proteins; Receptors, Opioid, mu; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Stevens	C W
23060524	10.1530/JOE-12-0338	TLR4 antagonist reduces early-stage atherosclerosis in diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient mice.	Although it has been reported that deficiency of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is associated with reduced atherosclerosis in atherosclerosis-prone mice and attenuated pro-inflammatory state in diabetic mice, it remains undetermined whether treatment with a TLR4 antagonist reduces atherosclerosis in nondiabetic or diabetic mice that have TLR4 expression. In this study, we determined the effect of Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipopolysaccharide (Rs-LPS), an established TLR4 antagonist, on early-stage atherosclerosis in nondiabetic and streptozotocin-induced diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe(-/-)) mice. Analysis of atherosclerotic lesions of both en face aortas and cross sections of aortic roots showed that administration of Rs-LPS in 14-week-old diabetic Apoe(-/-) mice for 10 weeks significantly reduced atherosclerotic lesions. Although atherosclerotic lesions in nondiabetic Apoe(-/-) mice appeared to be decreased by Rs-LPS treatment, the difference was not statistically significant. Me	2013	3	1	J Endocrinol	The Journal of endocrinology	Animals; Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal; Aorta; Apolipoproteins E; Atherosclerosis; Cell Line; Cells, Cultured; Cytokines; Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1; Diabetic Angiopathies; Endothelium, Vascular; Humans; Hyperlipidemias; Leukocytes, Mononuclear; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Mice; Mice, Knockout; Plaque, Atherosclerotic; Random Allocation; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Lu	Zhongyang
22955505	10.1007/128_2012_357	The solid-state photo-CIDNP effect and its analytical application : photo-CIDNP MAS NMR to study radical pairs.	Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) is an effect that produces non-Boltzmann nuclear spin polarization which can be observed as modification of signal intensity in NMR spectroscopy. The effect is well known in liquid-state NMR where it is explained most generally by the classical radical pair mechanism (RPM). In the solid-state, other mechanisms are operative in the spin-dynamics of radical pairs such as three-spin mixing (TSM) and differential decay (DD). Initially the solid-state photo-CIDNP effect has been solely observed on natural photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). Therefore the analytical capacity of the method has been explored in experiments on reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacterium of Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides. Here we will provide an account on phenomenology, theory, and analytical capacity of the solid-state photo-CIDNP effect. 	2014	8	27	Top Curr Chem	Topics in current chemistry	Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Photochemical Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bode	Bela E
25844451		[metabolism of the phase variants of the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides].	Growth, bacteriochlorophyll a content, electron transport chain (ETC), and activities of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes were studied in R and M phase variants of Rhodobactersphaeroides cells grown anaerobically in the light and aerobically in the dark. Under all cultivation conditions tested, bacteriochlorophyll a content was 2-3 times lower in the cells of the M. variant compared to the R variant, which therefore was predominant in the cultures grown in the light. In both variants, activity of all TCA cycle enzymes was higher for the cells grown in the dark under aerobic conditions. When grown aerobically in the dark, the R variant, unlike the M variant, did not contain cytochrome aa3, acting as. cytochrome c oxidase, in its ETC. An additional point of coupling the electron transfer to the generation of the proton gradient al the cytochrome aa3 level provided for more efficient oxidation of organic substrates, resulting in predominance of the M variant in the cultures grow	2015	4	17	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Citric Acid Cycle; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Proton-Motive Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mil'ko	E S
25707117		[The process of bacterial population splitting into dissociants and long-term batch cultivation of bacteria].	The growth and composition of a population were studied during long-term (up to 50 days) batch cultivation of mono and mixed cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa S- and M-dissociants and Rhodobacter sphaeroides R- and M-dissociants without the addition of nutrients. During the cultivation of P. aeruginosa on a glucose-containing mineral medium, periodic lysis followed by polyculture growth resumption in the late stationary phase occurred on account of the M-dissociant: the change in its cell number corresponded to the change in the total cell number of the association. It was shown that the periodic occurrence of reducing sugars in the medium preceded the resumption ofpolyculture growth.	2015	3	20	Prikl Biokhim Mikrobiol	Prikladnaia biokhimiia i mikrobiologiia	Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Load; Batch Cell Culture Techniques; Culture Media; Glucose; Microbial Viability; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stress, Physiological; Time Factors	Mil'ko	E S
25670706	10.1093/femsle/fnu036	The role of Cercospora zeae-maydis homologs of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 1O2-resistance genes in resistance to the photoactivated toxin cercosporin.	The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and plant pathogenic fungus Cercospora nicotianae have been used as models for understanding resistance to singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)), a highly toxic reactive oxygen species. In Rhodobacter and Cercospora, (1)O(2) is derived, respectively, from photosynthesis and from the (1)O(2)-generating toxin cercosporin which the fungus produces to parasitize plants. We identified common genes recovered in transcriptome studies of putative (1)O(2)-resistance genes in these two systems, suggesting common (1)O(2)-resistance mechanisms. To determine if the Cercospora homologs of R. sphaeroides (1)O(2)-resistance genes are involved in resistance to cercosporin, we expressed the genes in the cercosporin-sensitive fungus Neurospora crassa and assayed for increases in cercosporin resistance. Neurospora crassa transformants expressing genes encoding aldo/keto reductase, succinyl-CoA ligase, O-acetylhomoserine (thiol) lyase, peptide methionine sulphoxide r	2015	8	13	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Cercospora; O-acetylhomoserine (thiol) lyase; Rhodobacter; aldehyde dehydrogenase; aldo/keto reductase; cercosporin; glutathione S-transferase; peptide methionine sulphoxide reductase; singlet oxygen; succinyl-CoA ligase; Aldehyde Dehydrogenase; Ascomycota; Glutathione Transferase; Mitosporic Fungi; Neurospora crassa; Oxidants; Perylene; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen; Transcriptome	Beseli	Aydin
25593788	10.1128/microbiolspec.PLAS-0010-2013	The Agrobacterium Ti Plasmids.	Agrobacterium tumefaciens is a plant pathogen with the capacity to deliver a segment of oncogenic DNA carried on a large plasmid called the tumor-inducing or Ti plasmid to susceptible plant cells. A. tumefaciens belongs to the class Alphaproteobacteria, whose members include other plant pathogens (Agrobacterium rhizogenes), plant and insect symbionts (Rhizobium spp. and Wolbachia spp., respectively), human pathogens (Brucella spp., Bartonella spp., Rickettsia spp.), and nonpathogens (Caulobacter crescentus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides). Many species of Alphaproteobacteria carry large plasmids ranging in size from ...100 kb to nearly 2 Mb. These large replicons typically code for functions essential for cell physiology, pathogenesis, or symbiosis. Most of these elements rely on a conserved gene cassette termed repABC for replication and partitioning, and maintenance at only one or a few copies per cell. The subject of this review is the ...200-kb Ti plasmids carried by infectious strains of	2016	2	9	Microbiol Spectr	Microbiology spectrum	Agrobacterium tumefaciens; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Plant Diseases; Plant Tumor-Inducing Plasmids; Plants	Gordon	Jay E
25585255	10.1016/j.biortech.2014.12.064	4-Vinylphenol biosynthesis from cellulose as the sole carbon source using phenolic acid decarboxylase- and tyrosine ammonia lyase-expressing Streptomyces lividans.	Streptomyces lividans was adopted as a host strain for 4-vinylphenol (4VPh) production directly from cellulose. In order to obtain novel phenolic acid decarboxylase (PAD) expressed in S. lividans, PADs distributed among Streptomyces species were screened. Three novel PADs, derived from Streptomycessviceus, Streptomyceshygroscopicus, and Streptomycescattleya, were successfully obtained and expressed in S. lividans. S. sviceus PAD (SsPAD) could convert p-hydroxycinnamic acid (pHCA) to 4VPh more efficiently than the others both in vitro and in vivo. For 4VPh production directly from cellulose, l-tyrosine ammonia lyase derived from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and SsPAD were introduced into endoglucanase-secreting S. lividans, and the 4VPh biosynthetic pathway was constructed therein. The created transformants successfully produced 4VPh directly from cellulose. 	2016	4	25	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	4-Vinylphenol; Cellulose; Phenolic acid decarboxylase; Streptomyces lividans; Ammonia-Lyases; Biotechnology; Carboxy-Lyases; Cellulose; Coumaric Acids; Phenols; Propionates; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Streptomyces; Streptomyces lividans	Noda	Shuhei
25540003	10.1134/S0006297914110054	Properties of hybrid complexes composed of photosynthetic reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and quantum dots in lecithin liposomes.	Quantum dots (QDs) can absorb ultraviolet and long-wavelength light energy much more efficiently than natural light-harvesting proteins and transfer the excitation energy to photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). Inclusion into liposomes of RC membrane pigment-protein complexes combined with QDs as antennae opens new opportunities for using such hybrid systems as a basis for artificial energy-transforming devices that potentially can operate with greater efficiency and stability than devices based only on biological components. RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and QDs with fluorescence maximum at 530 nm (CdSe/ZnS with hydrophilic covering) were embedded in lecithin liposomes by extrusion of a solution of multilayer lipid vesicles through a polycarbonate membrane or by dialysis of lipids and proteins dispersed with excess detergent. The dimensions of the resulting hybrid systems were evaluated using dynamic light scattering and by transmission cryoelectron microscopy. The efficiency of 	2015	9	2	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Lecithins; Liposomes; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Dots; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zagidullin	V E
25512309	10.1128/JB.02429-14	The flagellar set Fla2 in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is controlled by the CckA pathway and is repressed by organic acids and the expression of Fla1.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two different sets of flagellar genes. Under the growth conditions commonly used in the laboratory, the expression of the fla1 set is constitutive, whereas the fla2 genes are not expressed. Phylogenetic analyses have previously shown that the fla1 genes were acquired by horizontal transfer from a gammaproteobacterium and that the fla2 genes are endogenous genes of this alphaproteobacterium. In this work, we characterized a set of mutants that were selected for swimming using the Fla2 flagella in the absence of the Fla1 flagellum (Fla2(+) strains). We determined that these strains have a single missense mutation in the histidine kinase domain of CckA. The expression of these mutant alleles in a Fla1(-) strain allowed fla2-dependent motility without selection. Motility of the Fla2(+) strains is also dependent on ChpT and CtrA. The mutant versions of CckA showed an increased autophosphorylation activity in vitro. Interestingly, we found that cckA is transcripti	2015	3	30	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Vega-Baray	Benjam..n
25512104	10.1007/s11120-014-0068-7	Connectivity of the intracytoplasmic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: a functional approach.	The photosynthetic apparatus in the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is mostly present in intracytoplasmic membrane invaginations. It has long been debated whether these invaginations remain in topological continuity with the cytoplasmic membrane, or form isolated chromatophore vesicles. This issue is revisited here by functional approaches. The ionophore gramicidin was used as a probe of the relative size of the electro-osmotic units in isolated chromatophores, spheroplasts, or intact cells. The decay of the membrane potential was monitored from the electrochromic shift of carotenoids. The half-time of the decay induced by a single channel in intact cells was about 6 ms, thus three orders of magnitude slower than in isolated chromatophores. In spheroplasts obtained by lysis of the cell wall, the single channel decay was still slower (~23 ms) and the sensitivity toward the gramicidin concentration was enhanced 1,000-fold with respect to isolated chromatophores. These results indicate 	2016	9	8	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Gramicidin; Intracytoplasmic membrane structure; Membrane potential; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Chromatophores; Carotenoids; Cytoplasm; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Gramicidin; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Intracellular Membranes; Ionophores; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spheroplasts	Verm..glio	Andr..
25503406	10.1371/journal.pgen.1004837	Global analysis of photosynthesis transcriptional regulatory networks.	Photosynthesis is a crucial biological process that depends on the interplay of many components. This work analyzed the gene targets for 4 transcription factors: FnrL, PrrA, CrpK and MppG (RSP_2888), which are known or predicted to control photosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) identified 52 operons under direct control of FnrL, illustrating its regulatory role in photosynthesis, iron homeostasis, nitrogen metabolism and regulation of sRNA synthesis. Using global gene expression analysis combined with ChIP-seq, we mapped the regulons of PrrA, CrpK and MppG. PrrA regulates ...34 operons encoding mainly photosynthesis and electron transport functions, while CrpK, a previously uncharacterized Crp-family protein, regulates genes involved in photosynthesis and maintenance of iron homeostasis. Furthermore, CrpK and FnrL share similar DNA binding determinants, possibly explaining our observation of the ability	2015	12	15	PLoS Genet	PLoS genetics	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatin Immunoprecipitation; DNA-Binding Proteins; Electron Transport; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Regulatory Networks; Homeostasis; Operon; Photosynthesis; RNA, Messenger; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators	Imam	Saheed
25485076	10.1098/rsfs.2014.0002	A minimal model for metabolism-dependent chemotaxis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides (...).	Chemotaxis is vital cellular movement in response to environmental chemicals. Unlike the canonical chemotactic pathway in Escherichia coli, Rhodobacter sphaeroides has both transmembrane and cytoplasmic sensory clusters, with the latter possibly interacting with essential components in the electron transport system. However, the effect of the cytoplasmic sensor and the mechanism of signal integration from both sensory clusters remain unclear. Based on a minimal model of the chemotaxis pathway in this species, we show that signal integration at the motor level produces realistic chemotactic behaviour in line with experimental observations. Our model also suggests that the core pathway of R. sphaeroides, at least its ancestor, may represent a metabolism-dependent selective stopping strategy, which alone can steer cells to favourable environments. Our results not only clarify the potential roles of the two sensory clusters but also put in question the current definitions of attractants an	2014	12	8	Interface Focus	Interface focus	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; chemotaxis; metabolism; simulations	Fan	Sisi
25480338	10.1007/s11120-014-0062-0	The L(M196)H mutation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center results in new electrostatic interactions.	New histidine residue was introduced in M196 position in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in order to alter polarity of the BChl dimer's protein environment and to study how it affects properties and structure of the primary electron donor P. It was shown that in the absorption spectrum of the mutant RC the 6..nm red shift of the Q Y P band was observed together with considerable decrease of its amplitude. The mid-point potential of P/P (+) in the mutant RC was increased by +65 (..15) mV as compared to the E m P/P (+) value in the wild-type RC suggesting that the mutation resulted in new pigment-protein interactions. Crystal structure of RC..L(M196)H determined at 2.4.... resolution implies that BChl .. .. and introduced histidine-M196 organize new electrostatic contact that may be specified either as ..-.. staking or as hydrogen-.. interaction. Besides, the structure of the mutants RC shows that His-M196 apparently became involved in hydrogen bond network existing in BCh	2016	5	2	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophylls; Crystallography, X-Ray; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Structural; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Static Electricity	Fufina	Tatiana Y
25474152	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004010	Exploring O2 diffusion in A-type cytochrome c oxidases: molecular dynamics simulations uncover two alternative channels towards the binuclear site.	Cytochrome c oxidases (Ccoxs) are the terminal enzymes of the respiratory chain in mitochondria and most bacteria. These enzymes couple dioxygen (O2) reduction to the generation of a transmembrane electrochemical proton gradient. Despite decades of research and the availability of a large amount of structural and biochemical data available for the A-type Ccox family, little is known about the channel(s) used by O2 to travel from the solvent/membrane to the heme a3-CuB binuclear center (BNC). Moreover, the identification of all possible O2 channels as well as the atomic details of O2 diffusion is essential for the understanding of the working mechanisms of the A-type Ccox. In this work, we determined the O2 distribution within Ccox from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, in the fully reduced state, in order to identify and characterize all the putative O2 channels leading towards the BNC. For that, we use an integrated strategy combining atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations (with and wit	2016	1	5	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Bacterial Proteins; Diffusion; Electron Transport Complex IV; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Oliveira	A Sofia F
25459807	10.1016/j.biortech.2014.10.061	Hydrogen production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM 158 under intense irradiation.	To identify optimal hydrogen production conditions using growing cultures of Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM 158 the effects of varying the reactor's volumetric power input (0.01-1.4kWm(-3)) and irradiation intensity (5-2500Wm(-2)) were investigated in batch and continuous production modes. Irradiation intensity had a greater effect on hydrogen production than volumetric power input. Hydrogen production and photofermentative biomass formation were maximized by irradiation at 2250Wm(-2) with a volumetric power input of 0.55kWm(-3). The bacterial dry weight (2.64gL(-1)) and rate of hydrogen production (195mLL(-1)h(-1)) achieved under these conditions were greater than any that have previously been reported for batch-mode hydrogen production by R. sphaeroides. Continuous mode experiments (D=0.1h(-1)) yielded a bacterial dry weight, hydrogen production rate, productivity and hydrogen yield of 2.35..0.18gL(-1), 165..6.2mLL(-1)h(-1), 3.96LL(-1)d(-1) and 36.6%, respectively. 	2017	1	30	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Batch; Continuous; Hydrogen; Intense irradiation; Photofermentation; Biomass; Hydrogen; Photobioreactors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Krujatz	Felix
25450341	10.1016/j.bbamem.2014.10.028	Construction and validation of an atomic model for bacterial TSPO from electron microscopy density, evolutionary constraints, and biochemical and biophysical data.	The 18 kDa protein TSPO is a highly conserved transmembrane protein found in bacteria, yeast, animals and plants. TSPO is involved in a wide range of physiological functions, among which the transport of several molecules. The atomic structure of monomeric ligand-bound mouse TSPO in detergent has been published recently. A previously published low-resolution structure of Rhodobacter sphaeroides TSPO, obtained from tubular crystals with lipids and observed in cryo-electron microscopy, revealed an oligomeric structure without any ligand. We analyze this electron microscopy density in view of available biochemical and biophysical data, building a matching atomic model for the monomer and then the entire crystal. We compare its intra- and inter-molecular contacts with those predicted by amino acid covariation in TSPO proteins from evolutionary sequence analysis. The arrangement of the five transmembrane helices in a monomer of our model is different from that observed for the mouse TSPO. W	2015	8	31	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Membrane protein; Translocase 18kDa; Transporter; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Carrier Proteins; Cholesterol; Conserved Sequence; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Crystallization; Isoquinolines; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Binding; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protoporphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Hinsen	Konrad
25449968	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.10.004	Assembly of functional photosystem complexes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides incorporating carotenoids from the spirilloxanthin pathway.	Carotenoids protect the photosynthetic apparatus against harmful radicals arising from the presence of both light and oxygen. They also act as accessory pigments for harvesting solar energy, and are required for stable assembly of many light-harvesting complexes. In the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides phytoene desaturase (CrtI) catalyses three sequential desaturations of the colourless carotenoid phytoene, extending the number of conjugated carbon-carbon double bonds, N, from three to nine and producing the yellow carotenoid neurosporene; subsequent modifications produce the yellow/red carotenoids spheroidene/spheroidenone (N=10/11). Genomic crtI replacements were used to swap the native three-step Rba. sphaeroides CrtI for the four-step Pantoea agglomerans enzyme, which re-routed carotenoid biosynthesis and culminated in the production of 2,2'-diketo-spirilloxanthin under semi-aerobic conditions. The new carotenoid pathway was elucidated using a combination of HP	2015	4	17	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Antenna; Bacterial photosynthesis; Carotenoid; Light harvesting; Membrane protein; Synthetic biology; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Energy Transfer; Mass Spectrometry; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Xanthophylls	Chi	Shuang C
25446875	10.1007/s12264-014-1483-7	Toll-like receptor 4-mediated nuclear factor-..B activation in spinal cord contributes to chronic morphine-induced analgesic tolerance and hyperalgesia in rats.	Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-..B) in the spinal cord is involved in pro-inflammatory cytokine-mediated pain facilitation. However, the role of NF-..B activation in chronic morphine-induced analgesic tolerance and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, we found that the level of phosphorylated NF-..B p65 (p-p65) was increased in the dorsal horn of the lumbar 4-6 segments after intrathecal administration of morphine for 7 consecutive days, and the p-p65 was co-localized with neurons and astrocytes. The expression of TNF-.. and IL-1.. was also increased in the same area. In addition, pretreatment with pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate (PDTC) or SN50, inhibitors of NF-..B, prevented the development of morphine analgesic tolerance and alleviated morphine withdrawal-induced allodynia and hyperalgesia. The increase in TNF-.. and IL-1.. expression induced by chronic morphine exposure was also partially blocked by PDTC pretreatment. In another experiment, rats receiving PDTC or 	2015	7	24	Neurosci Bull	Neuroscience bulletin	Animals; Drug Tolerance; Hyperalgesia; Interleukin-1beta; Male; Morphine; NF-kappa B; Narcotics; Pain Measurement; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Signal Transduction; Spinal Cord; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Bai	Liying
25445317	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.11.002	The rate of second electron transfer to QB(-) in bacterial reaction center of impaired proton delivery shows hydrogen-isotope effect.	The 2nd electron transfer in reaction center of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a two step process in which protonation of QB(-) precedes interquinone electron transfer. The thermal activation and pH dependence of the overall rate constants of different RC variants were measured and compared in solvents of water (H2O) and heavy water (D2O). The electron transfer variants where the electron transfer is rate limiting (wild type and M17DN, L210DN and H173EQ mutants) do not show solvent isotope effect and the significant decrease of the rate constant of the second electron transfer in these mutants is due to lowering the operational pKa of QB(-)/QBH: 4.5 (native), 3.9 (L210DN), 3.7 (M17DN) and 3.1 (H173EQ) at pH7. On the other hand, the proton transfer variants where the proton transfer is rate limiting demonstrate solvent isotope effect of pH-independent moderate magnitude (2.11..0.26 (WT+Ni(2+)), 2.16..0.35 (WT+Cd(2+)) and 2.34..0.44 (L210DN/M17DN)) or pH-dependent la	2015	4	17	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial photosynthesis; Flash-induced proton delivery; Protonation mutant; Reaction center protein; Solvent isotope effect; Deuterium; Electron Transport; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Mar..ti	..gnes
25428581	10.1007/s11120-014-0061-1	Quantifying the effects of light intensity on bioproduction and maintenance energy during photosynthetic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Obtaining a better understanding of the physiology and bioenergetics of photosynthetic microbes is an important step toward optimizing these systems for light energy capture or production of valuable commodities. In this work, we analyzed the effect of light intensity on bioproduction, biomass formation, and maintenance energy during photoheterotrophic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Using data obtained from steady-state bioreactors operated at varying dilution rates and light intensities, we found that irradiance had a significant impact on biomass yield and composition, with significant changes in photopigment, phospholipid, and biopolymer storage contents. We also observed a linear relationship between incident light intensity and H2 production rate between 3 and 10 W m(-2), with saturation observed at 100 W m(-2). The light conversion efficiency to H2 was also higher at lower light intensities. Photosynthetic maintenance energy requirements were also significantly affected by li	2015	10	7	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Biomass; Bioreactors; Energy Metabolism; Models, Biological; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Imam	Saheed
25390332	10.1371/journal.pone.0090683	Lipopolysaccharide induces pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP production via TLR4 in nasal polyp-derived fibroblast and organ culture.	Nasal polyposis is characterized by persistent inflammation and remodeling in sinonasal mucosa. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a role in the innate immune response to microbes in the sinonasal cavity. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether nasal polyp-derived fibroblasts (NPDFs) and organ-cultured nasal polyps can synthesize pro-inflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) after exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a TLR4 agonist. NPDFs and organ-cultured nasal polyps were isolated from nasal polyps of 8 patients and exposed to LPS. The mRNA and protein expression levels of TLRs, cytokines, and MMPs were determined using a gene expression microarray, real-time RT-PCR, western blot analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and immunofluorescence staining. The enzymatic activities of MMPs were analyzed using collagen or gelatin zymography. The protein expression level of MMP-1 increased in nasal polyp tissues compared to inferior turbinate tissues. LPS induced 	2016	4	29	PLoS One	PloS one	Cells, Cultured; Cytokines; Fibroblasts; Humans; Inflammation; Lipopolysaccharides; MAP Kinase Signaling System; Matrix Metalloproteinases; Nasal Polyps; Organ Culture Techniques; Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases; Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Cho	Jung-Sun
25384249	10.1021/bi5012767	Discovery of a bacterial 5-methylcytosine deaminase.	5-Methylcytosine is found in all domains of life, but the bacterial cytosine deaminase from Escherichia coli (CodA) will not accept 5-methylcytosine as a substrate. Since significant amounts of 5-methylcytosine are produced in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, this compound must eventually be catabolized and the fragments recycled by enzymes that have yet to be identified. We therefore initiated a comprehensive phylogenetic screen for enzymes that may be capable of deaminating 5-methylcytosine to thymine. From a systematic analysis of sequence homologues of CodA from thousands of bacterial species, we identified putative cytosine deaminases where a "discriminating" residue in the active site, corresponding to Asp-314 in CodA from E. coli, was no longer conserved. Representative examples from Klebsiella pneumoniae (locus tag: Kpn00632), Rhodobacter sphaeroides (locus tag: Rsp0341), and Corynebacterium glutamicum (locus tag: NCgl0075) were demonstrated to efficiently deaminate 5-methylcyt	2015	1	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	5-Methylcytosine; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteria; Biocatalysis; Catalytic Domain; Cell Line; Cytosine Deaminase; Flucytosine; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Thymine	Hitchcock	Daniel S
25371207	10.1074/jbc.M114.613091	Role of small subunit in mediating assembly of red-type form I Rubisco.	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) is the key enzyme involved in photosynthetic carbon fixation, converting atmospheric CO2 to organic compounds. Form I Rubisco is a cylindrical complex composed of eight large (RbcL) subunits that are capped by four small subunits (RbcS) at the top and four at the bottom. Form I Rubiscos are phylogenetically divided into green- and red-type. Some red-type enzymes have catalytically superior properties. Thus, understanding their folding and assembly is of considerable biotechnological interest. Folding of the green-type RbcL subunits in cyanobacteria is mediated by the GroEL/ES chaperonin system, and assembly to holoenzyme requires specialized chaperones such as RbcX and RAF1. Here, we show that the red-type RbcL subunits in the proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides also fold with GroEL/ES. However, assembly proceeds in a chaperone-independent manner. We find that the C-terminal ..-hairpin extension of red-type RbcS, which is ab	2015	4	21	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Molecular Chaperone; Photosynthesis; Protein Assembly; Protein Folding; Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate Carboxylase/Oxygenase (RuBisCO); Bacterial Proteins; Chaperonin 60; Molecular Chaperones; Photosynthesis; Protein Folding; Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-raf; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Ribulosephosphates	Joshi	Jidnyasa
26740781	10.1080/13102818.2014.978170	Heterologous expression of glutamyl-tRNA reductase gene in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> O.U.001 to enhance 5-aminolevulinic acid production.	The pathways for synthesis of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) use either succinyl-CoA and glycine (C-4 pathway), or glutamate (C-5 pathway). Although Rhodobacter sphaeroides synthesizes 5-ALA through the C-4 pathway, it also has the genes coding for the enzymes of the C-5 pathway, except for glutamyl-tRNA reductase. The glutamyl-tRNA reductase gene was cloned from Rhodospirillum rubrum and expressed in R. sphaeroides; thus, the C-5 pathway was enabled to function upon assembling all the required genes. Consequently, a new and unique bacterial strain producing more 5-ALA was developed. Biohydrogen was also produced in the same bioprocess within a biorefinery approach using sugar beet molasses as substrate. The amount of 5-ALA produced by the modified strain was 25.9..mg/g dry cell weight (DCW), whereas the wild-type strain produced 12.4..mg/g DCW. In addition, the amount of H2 generated by the modified and wild-type cells, respectively, was 0.92 L/L culture	2020	10	1	Biotechnol Biotechnol Equip	Biotechnology, biotechnological equipment	Rhodobacter sphaeroides O.U.001; aminolevulinic acid; biohydrogen; glutamyl-tRNA reductase; heterologous expression	Kars	G..khan
25340853	10.1021/ja509018g	A DNA-directed light-harvesting/reaction center system.	A structurally and compositionally well-defined and spectrally tunable artificial light-harvesting system has been constructed in which multiple organic dyes attached to a three-arm-DNA nanostructure serve as an antenna conjugated to a photosynthetic reaction center isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. The light energy absorbed by the dye molecules is transferred to the reaction center, where charge separation takes place. The average number of DNA three-arm junctions per reaction center was tuned from 0.75 to 2.35. This DNA-templated multichromophore system serves as a modular light-harvesting antenna that is capable of being optimized for its spectral properties, energy transfer efficiency, and photostability, allowing one to adjust both the size and spectrum of the resulting structures. This may serve as a useful test bed for developing nanostructured photonic systems. 	2015	7	3	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Coloring Agents; DNA; Energy Transfer; Models, Molecular; Nanostructures; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dutta	Palash K
25305606	10.1016/j.saa.2014.08.132	Absorption spectral change of peripheral-light harvesting complexes 2 induced by magnesium protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester association.	Several spectrally different types of peripheral light harvesting complexes (LH) have been reported in anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria in response to environmental changes. In this study, two spectral forms of LH2 (T-LH2 and U-LH2) were isolated from Rhodobacter azotoformans. The absorption of T-LH2 was extremely similar to the LH2 isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. U-LH2 showed an extra peak at ...423 nm in the carotenoid region. To explore the spectral origin of this absorption peak, the difference in pigment compositions of two LH2 was analyzed. Spheroidene and bacteriochlorophyll aP were both contained in the two LH2. And magnesium protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester (MPE) was only contained in U-LH2. It is known that spheroidene and bacteriochlorophyll aP do not produce ...423 nm absorption peak either in vivo or in vitro. Whether MPE accumulation was mainly responsible for the formation of the ...423 nm peak? The interactions between MPE and different proteins were further st	2015	8	4	Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc	Spectrochimica acta. Part A, Molecular and biomolecular spectroscopy	Bacteriochlorophyll; Carotenoid; LH2; Magnesium protoporphyrin monomethyl IX ester; Rhodobacter azotoformans; Bacterial Proteins; Phycobiliproteins; Protoporphyrins; Rhodobacter; Spectrophotometry	Yue	Huiying
25285049	10.1021/cg5011488	X-ray Transparent Microfluidic Chip for Mesophase-Based Crystallization of Membrane Proteins and On-Chip Structure Determination.	Crystallization from lipidic mesophase matrices is a promising route to diffraction-quality crystals and structures of membrane proteins. The microfluidic approach reported here eliminates two bottlenecks of the standard mesophase-based crystallization protocols: (i) manual preparation of viscous mesophases and (ii) manual harvesting of often small and fragile protein crystals. In the approach reported here, protein-loaded mesophases are formulated in an X-ray transparent microfluidic chip using only 60 nL of the protein solution per crystallization trial. The X-ray transparency of the chip enables diffraction data collection from multiple crystals residing in microfluidic wells, eliminating the normally required manual harvesting and mounting of individual crystals. We validated our approach by on-chip crystallization of photosynthetic reaction center, a membrane protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, followed by solving its structure to a resolution of 2.5 .. using X-ray diffra	2021	10	21	Cryst Growth Des	Crystal growth &amp; design	NA	Khvostichenko	Daria S
25240681	10.1007/s11120-014-0041-5	Spectral exhibition of electron-vibrational relaxation in P* state of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	Electron-vibrational relaxation in the excited state of the primary electron donor, bacteriochlorophyll dimer P, in the reaction centers (RCs) of purple photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides is modeled. A multimode model of three states (i.e., the ground state Pg, initially excited P1*, and relaxed excited P2*) is used to calculate the incoherent dynamics of the difference (..A) spectra on a femtosecond timescale for the YM210..W mutant RCs. The relaxation processes are described by the step-ladder model. The model shows that the electron-vibrational relaxation in the excited state of P is visualized by the transient red shift of the stimulated emission from P*. The dynamics of this shift is observed as a change in the ..A spectrum shape in its red-most part, within a few hundreds of femtoseconds after excitation. As a result, an initial rise in the red-side ..A kinetics is delayed with respect to the blue-side kinetics. The time constant of the P1*.......P2* electronic relax	2016	5	2	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Theoretical; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Yakovlev	Andrei G
25220182	10.1186/1471-2164-15-794	Role of oxygen and the OxyR protein in the response to iron limitation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	High intracellular levels of unbound iron can contribute to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) via the Fenton reaction, while depletion of iron limits the availability of iron-containing proteins, some of which have important functions in defence against oxidative stress. Vice versa increased ROS levels lead to the damage of proteins with iron sulphur centres. Thus, organisms have to coordinate and balance their responses to oxidative stress and iron availability. Our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms underlying the co-regulation of these responses remains limited. To discriminate between a direct cellular response to iron limitation and indirect responses, which are the consequence of increased levels of ROS, we compared the response of the ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to iron limitation in the presence or absence of oxygen. One third of all genes with altered expression under iron limitation showed a response that was independent of oxygen availability.	2015	7	2	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Iron; Molecular Sequence Data; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, RNA	Remes	Bernhard
25218902	10.1016/j.bbi.2014.09.004	Select steroid hormone glucuronide metabolites can cause toll-like receptor 4 activation and enhanced pain.	We have recently shown that several classes of glucuronide metabolites, including the morphine metabolite morphine-3-glucuronide and the ethanol metabolite ethyl glucuronide, cause toll like receptor 4 (TLR4)-dependent signaling in vitro and enhanced pain in vivo. Steroid hormones, including estrogens and corticosterone, are also metabolized through glucuronidation. Here we demonstrate that in silico docking predicts that corticosterone, corticosterone-21-glucuronide, estradiol, estradiol-3-glucuronide and estradiol-17-glucuronide all dock with the MD-2 component of the TLR4 receptor complex. In addition to each docking with MD-2, the docking of each was altered by pre-docking with (+)-naloxone, a TLR4 signaling inhibitor. As agonist versus antagonist activity cannot be determined from these in silico interactions, an in vitro study was undertaken to clarify which of these compounds can act in an agonist fashion. Studies using a cell line transfected with TLR4, necessary co-signaling m	2015	8	13	Brain Behav Immun	Brain, behavior, and immunity	(+)-Naloxone; Corticosterone; Corticosterone-21-glucuronide; Estradiol; Estradiol-17-glucuronide; Estradiol-3-glucuronide; TLR4; Alkaline Phosphatase; Animals; Corticosterone; Estradiol; Glucuronides; Gonadal Steroid Hormones; HEK293 Cells; Humans; Hyperalgesia; Male; Molecular Docking Simulation; Naloxone; Pain; Physical Stimulation; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Lewis	Susannah S
25193660	10.1074/jbc.M114.596585	Aberrant assembly complexes of the reaction center light-harvesting 1 PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides imaged by atomic force microscopy.	In the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, many protein complexes congregate within the membrane to form operational photosynthetic units consisting of arrays of light-harvesting LH2 complexes and monomeric and dimeric reaction center (RC)-light-harvesting 1 (LH1)-PufX "core" complexes. Each half of a dimer complex consists of a RC surrounded by 14 LH1 .... subunits, with two bacteriochlorophylls (Bchls) sandwiched between each .... pair of transmembrane helices. We used atomic force microscopy (AFM) to investigate the assembly of single molecules of the RC-LH1-PufX complex using membranes prepared from LH2-minus mutants. When the RC and PufX components were also absent, AFM revealed a series of LH1 variants where the repeating ..(1)..(1)(Bchl)2 units had formed rings of variable size, ellipses, and spirals and also arcs that could be assembly products. The spiral complexes occur when the LH1 ring has failed to close, and short arcs are suggestive of prematurely term	2015	2	12	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM); Bacteria; Light Harvesting; Membrane Biogenesis; Membrane Protein; Photosynthesis; Reaction Center; Bacterial Proteins; Detergents; Imaging, Three-Dimensional; Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Mutant Proteins; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ultracentrifugation	Olsen	John D
25184535	10.1021/bi500654y	The semiquinone at the Qi site of the bc1 complex explored using HYSCORE spectroscopy and specific isotopic labeling of ubiquinone in Rhodobacter sphaeroides via (13)C methionine and construction of a methionine auxotroph.	Specific isotopic labeling at the residue or substituent level extends the scope of different spectroscopic approaches to the atomistic level. Here we describe (13)C isotopic labeling of the methyl and methoxy ring substituents of ubiquinone, achieved through construction of a methionine auxotroph in Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain BC17 supplemented with l-methionine with the side chain methyl group (13)C-labeled. Two-dimensional electron spin echo envelope modulation (HYSCORE) was applied to study the (13)C methyl and methoxy hyperfine couplings in the semiquinone generated in situ at the Qi site of the bc1 complex in its membrane environment. The data were used to characterize the distribution of unpaired spin density and the conformations of the methoxy substituents based on density functional theory calculations of (13)C hyperfine tensors in the semiquinone of the geometry-optimized X-ray structure of the bc1 complex (Protein Data Bank entry 1PP9 ) with the highest available resolut	2014	12	12	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Carbon Isotopes; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Isotope Labeling; Methionine; Molecular Structure; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Ubiquinone	Hong	Sangjin
25164283	10.1186/1471-2164-15-730	Gene co-expression network analysis in Rhodobacter capsulatus and application to comparative expression analysis of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The genus Rhodobacter contains purple nonsulfur bacteria found mostly in freshwater environments. Representative strains of two Rhodobacter species, R. capsulatus and R. sphaeroides, have had their genomes fully sequenced and both have been the subject of transcriptional profiling studies. Gene co-expression networks can be used to identify modules of genes with similar expression profiles. Functional analysis of gene modules can then associate co-expressed genes with biological pathways, and network statistics can determine the degree of module preservation in related networks. In this paper, we constructed an R. capsulatus gene co-expression network, performed functional analysis of identified gene modules, and investigated preservation of these modules in R. capsulatus proteomics data and in R. sphaeroides transcriptomics data. The analysis identified 40 gene co-expression modules in R. capsulatus. Investigation of the module gene contents and expression profiles revealed patterns t	2015	5	12	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Regulatory Networks; Genes, Bacterial; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptome	Pe..a-Castillo	Lourdes
25119034	10.1038/nature13683	Inflammatory caspases are innate immune receptors for intracellular LPS.	The murine caspase-11 non-canonical inflammasome responds to various bacterial infections. Caspase-11 activation-induced pyroptosis, in response to cytoplasmic lipopolysaccharide (LPS), is critical for endotoxic shock in mice. The mechanism underlying cytosolic LPS sensing and the responsible pattern recognition receptor are unknown. Here we show that human monocytes, epithelial cells and keratinocytes undergo necrosis upon cytoplasmic delivery of LPS. LPS-induced cytotoxicity was mediated by human caspase-4 that could functionally complement murine caspase-11. Human caspase-4 and the mouse homologue caspase-11 (hereafter referred to as caspase-4/11) and also human caspase-5, directly bound to LPS and lipid A with high specificity and affinity. LPS associated with endogenous caspase-11 in pyroptotic cells. Insect-cell purified caspase-4/11 underwent oligomerization upon LPS binding, resulting in activation of the caspases. Underacylated lipid IVa and lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter	2014	11	3	Nature	Nature	Animals; Caspases; Caspases, Initiator; Cell Death; Cells, Cultured; Enzyme Activation; Epithelial Cells; Genetic Complementation Test; Humans; Immunity, Innate; Inflammation; Keratinocytes; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Mice; Mutant Proteins; Necrosis; Protein Binding; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Surface Plasmon Resonance	Shi	Jianjin
25114210	10.1073/pnas.1407187111	Characterizing the proton loading site in cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) uses the energy released by reduction of O2 to H2O to drive eight charges from the high pH to low pH side of the membrane, increasing the electrochemical gradient. Four electrons and protons are used for chemistry, while four more protons are pumped. Proton pumping requires that residues on a pathway change proton affinity through the reaction cycle to load and then release protons. The protonation states of all residues in CcO are determined in MultiConformational Continuum Electrostatics simulations with the protonation and redox states of heme a, a3, Cu(B), Y288, and E286 used to define the catalytic cycle. One proton is found to be loaded and released from residues identified as the proton loading site (PLS) on the P-side of the protein in each of the four CcO redox states. Thus, the same proton pumping mechanism can be used each time CcO is reduced. Calculations with structures of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Paracoccus denitrificans, and bovine CcO derived 	2014	11	25	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	MCCE; bioenergetics; pKa; proton transfer; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Biophysical Phenomena; Cattle; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Energy Metabolism; Heme; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Paracoccus denitrificans; Protein Conformation; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Lu	Jianxun
25108459	10.1007/s12539-012-0071-7	Insilico model for prediction of lateral gene transfer in Rhodopseudomonas paulistris.	Study of evolutionary phenomenon is of great interest to biologists in discovering the secrets of life. The presence of reticulation events due to lateral gene transfer (LGT) among species poses new challenges for such evolutionary studies. In this paper an attempt has been made to develop an insilico model to predict LGT in the Rhodopseudomonas paulistris. Neighbour Joining method is employed to generate phylogenetic tree of 26 sequences of Alphaproteobacteria and one sequence of Cyanobacteria used as an out group. Then Least Squares approach is employed to predict the reticulation branches. Three reticulation branches were detected among these 27 sequences. The lateral gene transfer was predicted between Rhodopseudomonas paulistris 99 D and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodopseudomonas paulistris HMD 88 and Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA and Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA and Rhodobacter blasticus. The results obtained are in agreement with the results obtained by earlier research workers.	2015	8	10	Interdiscip Sci	Interdisciplinary sciences, computational life sciences	Alphaproteobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Bradyrhizobium; Computer Simulation; Cyanobacteria; DNA, Ribosomal; Evolution, Molecular; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genes, Bacterial; Least-Squares Analysis; Models, Biological; Oxidoreductases; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter; Rhodopseudomonas; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Shanker	Anuja
25103966	10.1152/japplphysiol.00534.2014	Glial TLR4 signaling does not contribute to opioid-induced depression of respiration.	Opioids activate glia in the central nervous system in part by activating the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/myeloid differentiation 2 (MD2) complex. TLR4/MD2-mediated activation of glia by opioids compromises their analgesic actions. Glial activation is also hypothesized as pivotal in opioid-mediated reward and tolerance and as a contributor to opioid-mediated respiratory depression. We tested the contribution of TLR4 to opioid-induced respiratory depression using rhythmically active medullary slices that contain the pre-B..tzinger Complex (preB..tC, an important site of respiratory rhythm generation) and adult rats in vivo. Injection with DAMGO (..-opioid receptor agonist; 50 ..M) or bath application of DAMGO (500 nM) or fentanyl (1 ..M) slowed frequency recorded from XII nerves to 40%, 40%, or 50% of control, respectively. This DAMGO-mediated frequency inhibition was unaffected by preapplication of lipopolysaccharides from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (a TLR4 antagonist, 2,000 ng/ml) or (+)	2015	10	30	J Appl Physiol (1985)	Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985)	opioid; pre-B..tzinger complex; rat; respiratory depression; toll-like receptor; Analgesics, Opioid; Animals; Enkephalin, Ala(2)-MePhe(4)-Gly(5)-; Female; Fentanyl; Male; Medulla Oblongata; Minocycline; Naloxone; Neuroglia; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Receptors, Opioid, mu; Respiration; Respiratory Insufficiency; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Zwicker	Jennifer D
25092314	10.1073/pnas.1405520111	Synthesis and scavenging role of furan fatty acids.	Fatty acids play important functional and protective roles in living systems. This paper reports on the synthesis of a previously unidentified 19 carbon furan-containing fatty acid, 10,13-epoxy-11-methyl-octadecadienoate (9-(3-methyl-5-pentylfuran-2-yl)nonanoic acid) (19Fu-FA), in phospholipids from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We show that 19Fu-FA accumulation is increased in cells containing mutations that increase the transcriptional response of this bacterium to singlet oxygen ((1)O2), a reactive oxygen species generated by energy transfer from one or more light-excited donors to molecular oxygen. We identify a previously undescribed class of S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methylases that convert a phospholipid 18 carbon cis unsaturated fatty acyl chain to a 19 carbon methylated trans unsaturated fatty acyl chain (19M-UFA). We also identify genes required for the O2-dependent conversion of this 19M-UFA to 19Fu-FA. Finally, we show that the presence of (1)O2 leads to turnover of 19Fu-Fa	2014	11	3	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	fatty acyl methylase; oxygenated fatty acid; radical scavenger; Chromatography, Gas; Fatty Acids; Furans; Reactive Oxygen Species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen	Lemke	Rachelle A S
25080366	10.1007/s00239-014-9634-z	Exchange and complementation of genes coding for photosynthetic reaction center core subunits among purple bacteria.	A mutant of the phototrophic species belonging to the ..-proteobacteria, Rubrivivax gelatinosus, lacking the photosynthetic growth ability was constructed by the removal of genes coding for the L, M, and cytochrome subunits of the photosynthetic reaction center complex. The L, M, and cytochrome genes derived from five other species of proteobacteria, Acidiphilium rubrum, Allochromatium vinosum, Blastochloris viridis, Pheospirillum molischianum, and Roseateles depolymerans, and the L and M subunits from two other species, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris, respectively, have been introduced into this mutant. Introduction of the genes from three of these seven species, Rte. depolymerans, Ach. vinosum, and Psp. molischianum, restored the photosynthetic growth ability of the mutant of Rvi. gelatinosus, although the growth rates were 1.5, 9.4, and 10.7 times slower, respectively, than that of the parent strain. Flash-induced kinetic measurements for the intact cells of 	2015	3	5	J Mol Evol	Journal of molecular evolution	Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Transfer, Horizontal; Genetic Complementation Test; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Phylogeny; Proteobacteria	Nagashima	Kenji V P
25058304	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.07.011	Engineered biosynthesis of bacteriochlorophyll b in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacteriochlorophyll b has the most red-shifted absorbance maximum of all naturally occurring photopigments. It has a characteristic ethylidene group at the C8 position in place of the more common ethyl group, the product of a C8-vinyl reductase, which is carried by the majority of chlorophylls and bacteriochlorophylls used in photosynthesis. The subsequent and first step exclusive to bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis, the reduction of the C7=C8 bond, is catalyzed by chlorophyllide oxidoreductase. It has been demonstrated that the enzyme from bacteriochlorophyll a-utilizing bacteria can catalyze the formation of compounds carrying an ethyl group at C8 from both ethyl- and vinyl-carrying substrates, indicating a surprising additional C8-vinyl reductase function, while the enzyme from organisms producing BChl b could only catalyze C7=C8 reduction with a vinyl substrate, but this product carried an ethylidene group at the C8 position. We have replaced the native chlorophyllide oxidoreductas	2014	10	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacteriochlorophyll; Chlorophyll; Chlorophyllide oxidoreductase; Pathway engineering; Photosynthesis; Bacteriochlorophylls; Base Sequence; Biocatalysis; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; DNA Primers; Genes, Bacterial; Pigments, Biological; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Canniffe	Daniel P
25042731	10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2014.06.016	Proton pumping by an inactive structural variant of cytochrome c oxidase.	The aa3-type cytochrome c oxidases (CytcOs) from e.g. Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Paracoccus denitrificans harbor two proton-transfer pathways. The K pathway is used for proton uptake upon reduction of the CytcO, while the D pathway is used after binding of O2 to the catalytic site. The aim of the present study was to determine whether or not CytcO in which the K pathway is blocked (by e.g. the Lys362Met replacement) is capable of pumping protons. The process can not be studied using conventional assays because the O2-reduction activity is too low when the K pathway is blocked. Consequently, proton pumping with a blocked K pathway has not been demonstrated directly. Here, the Lys362Met and Ser299Glu structural variants were reconstituted in liposomes and allowed to (slowly) become completely reduced. Then, the reaction with O2 was studied with ..s time resolution after flash photolysis of a blocking CO ligand bound to heme a3. The data show that with both the inactive Lys362Met and par	2015	5	22	J Inorg Biochem	Journal of inorganic biochemistry	Cytochrome aa(3); Electrochemical potential; Electron transfer; Membrane protein; Redox reaction; Respiration; Electron Transport Complex IV; Protein Conformation; Proton Pumps	Svahn	Emelie
25026433	10.1021/jp5051029	Hyperfine and nuclear quadrupole tensors of nitrogen donors in the Q(A) site of bacterial reaction centers: correlation of the histidine N(..) tensors with hydrogen bond strength.	X- and Q-band pulsed EPR spectroscopy was applied to study the interaction of the QA site semiquinone (SQA) with nitrogens from the local protein environment in natural abundance (14)N and in (15)N uniformly labeled photosynthetic reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The hyperfine and nuclear quadrupole tensors for His-M219 N.. and Ala-M260 peptide nitrogen (Np) were estimated through simultaneous simulation of the Q-band (15)N Davies ENDOR, X- and Q-band (14,15)N HYSCORE, and X-band (14)N three-pulse ESEEM spectra, with support from DFT calculations. The hyperfine coupling constants were found to be a((14)N) = 2.3 MHz, T = 0.3 MHz for His-M219 N.. and a((14)N) = 2.6 MHz, T = 0.3 MHz for Ala-M260 Np. Despite that His-M219 N.. is established as the stronger of the two H-bond donors, Ala-M260 Np is found to have the larger value of a((14)N). The nuclear quadrupole coupling constants were estimated as e(2)Qq/4h = 0.38 MHz, .. = 0.97 and e(2)Qq/4h = 0.74 MHz, .. = 0.59 for His-M219	2015	5	22	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Computer Simulation; Copper; Electrons; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Imidazoles; Models, Molecular; Nitrogen; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Zinc	Taguchi	Alexander T
25022916	10.1007/s11120-014-0026-4	Assembly of photosynthetic apparatus in Rhodobacter sphaeroides as revealed by functional assessments at different growth phases and in synchronized and greening cells.	The development of photosynthetic membranes of intact cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was tracked by light-induced absorption spectroscopy and induction and relaxation of the bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence. Changes in membrane structure were induced by three methods: synchronization of cell growth, adjustment of different growth phases and transfer from aerobic to anaerobic conditions (greening) of the bacteria. While the production of the bacteriochlorophyll and carotenoid pigments and the activation of light harvesting and reaction center complexes showed cell-cycle independent and continuous increase with characteristic lag phases, the accumulation of phospholipids and membrane potential (electrochromism) exhibited stepwise increase controlled by cell division. Cells in the stationary phase of growth demonstrated closer packing and tighter energetic coupling of the photosynthetic units (PSU) than in their early logarithmic stage. The greening resulted in rapid (within 0-4..h) ind	2015	7	8	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Intracellular Membranes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Biological; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kis	M
25017691	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.07.003	Organization in photosynthetic membranes of purple bacteria in vivo: the role of carotenoids.	Photosynthesis in purple bacteria is performed by pigment-protein complexes that are closely packed within specialized intracytoplasmic membranes. Here we report on the influence of carotenoid composition on the organization of RC-LH1 pigment-protein complexes in intact membranes and cells of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Mostly dimeric RC-LH1 complexes could be isolated from strains expressing native brown carotenoids when grown under illuminated/anaerobic conditions, or from strains expressing green carotenoids when grown under either illuminated/anaerobic or dark/semiaerobic conditions. However, mostly monomeric RC-LH1 complexes were isolated from strains expressing the native photoprotective red carotenoid spheroidenone, which is synthesized during phototrophic growth in the presence of oxygen. Despite this marked difference, linear dichroism (LD) and light-minus-dark LD spectra of oriented intact intracytoplasmic membranes indicated that RC-LH1 complexes are always assembled in ordered	2014	10	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Carotenoid; Linear dichroism spectroscopy; Photoprotection; Photosynthetic membranes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Supramolecular organization; Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria	D'Haene	Sandrine E
25008288	10.1039/c4cp01981d	Energy transfer properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores during adaptation to low light intensity.	Time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy was used to explore the pathway and kinetics of energy transfer in photosynthetic membrane vesicles (chromatophores) isolated from Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides cells harvested 2, 4, 6 or 24 hours after a transition from growth in high to low level illumination. As previously observed, this light intensity transition initiates the remodeling of the photosynthetic apparatus and an increase in the number of light harvesting 2 (LH2) complexes relative to light harvesting 1 (LH1) and reaction center (RC) complexes. It has generally been thought that the increase in LH2 complexes served the purpose of increasing the overall energy transmission to the RC. However, fluorescence lifetime measurements and analysis in terms of energy transfer within LH2 and between LH2 and LH1 indicate that, during the remodeling time period measured, only a portion of the additional LH2 generated are well connected to LH1 and the reaction center. The majority of the addi	2015	4	27	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Adaptation, Physiological; Energy Transfer; Light; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Driscoll	B
24997120	10.1007/s11120-014-0021-9	Amphiphilic, hydrophilic, or hydrophobic synthetic bacteriochlorins in biohybrid light-harvesting architectures: consideration of molecular designs.	Biohybrid light-harvesting architectures can be constructed that employ native-like bacterial photosynthetic antenna peptides as a scaffold to which synthetic chromophores are attached to augment overall spectral coverage. Synthetic bacteriochlorins are attractive to enhance capture of solar radiation in the photon-rich near-infrared spectral region. The effect of the polarity of the bacteriochlorin substituents on the antenna self-assembly process was explored by the preparation of a bacteriochlorin-peptide conjugate using a synthetic amphiphilic bacteriochlorin (B1) to complement prior studies using hydrophilic (B2, four carboxylic acids) or hydrophobic (B3) bacteriochlorins. The amphiphilic bioconjugatable bacteriochlorin B1 with a polar ammonium-terminated tail was synthesized by sequential Pd-mediated reactions of a 3,13-dibromo-5-methoxybacteriochlorin. Each bacteriochlorin bears a maleimido-terminated tether for attachment to a cysteine-containing analog of the Rhodobacter sphae	2015	3	31	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bioelectric Energy Sources; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Porphyrins; Protein Conformation	Jiang	Jianbing
24984074	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.06.007	Efficiency of light harvesting in a photosynthetic bacterium adapted to different levels of light.	In this study, we use the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to find out how the acclimation of photosynthetic apparatus to growth conditions influences the rates of energy migration toward the reaction center traps and the efficiency of charge separation at the reaction centers. To answer these questions we measured the spectral and picosecond kinetic fluorescence responses as a function of excitation intensity in membranes prepared from cells grown under different illumination conditions. A kinetic model analysis yielded the microscopic rate constants that characterize the energy transfer and trapping inside the photosynthetic unit as well as the dependence of exciton trapping efficiency on the ratio of the peripheral LH2 and core LH1 antenna complexes, and on the wavelength of the excitation light. A high quantum efficiency of trapping over 80% was observed in most cases, which decreased toward shorter excitation wavelengths within the near infrared absorption b	2014	10	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Exciton; Light harvesting; Optical spectroscopy; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic unit; Picosecond excitation energy transfer; Adaptation, Physiological; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Timpmann	K..u
24982160	10.1073/pnas.1324301111	Engineering adenylate cyclases regulated by near-infrared window light.	Bacteriophytochromes sense light in the near-infrared window, the spectral region where absorption by mammalian tissues is minimal, and their chromophore, biliverdin IX.., is naturally present in animal cells. These properties make bacteriophytochromes particularly attractive for optogenetic applications. However, the lack of understanding of how light-induced conformational changes control output activities has hindered engineering of bacteriophytochrome-based optogenetic tools. Many bacteriophytochromes function as homodimeric enzymes, in which light-induced conformational changes are transferred via ..-helical linkers to the rigid output domains. We hypothesized that heterologous output domains requiring homodimerization can be fused to the photosensory modules of bacteriophytochromes to generate light-activated fusions. Here, we tested this hypothesis by engineering adenylate cyclases regulated by light in the near-infrared spectral window using the photosensory module of the Rhodo	2014	9	19	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	adenylyl cyclase; cAMP; locomotion; phytochrome; protein engineering; Adenylyl Cyclases; Animals; Animals, Genetically Modified; Bacterial Proteins; Caenorhabditis elegans; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Infrared Rays; Nostoc; Protein Engineering; Protein Structure, Secondary; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis	Ryu	Min-Hyung
24957624	10.1128/JB.01842-14	Amino acid residues of RegA important for interactions with the CbbR-DNA complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	CbbR and RegA (PrrA) are transcriptional regulators of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) CO2 fixation pathway (cbbI and cbbII) operons of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The CbbR and RegA proteins interact, but CbbR must be bound to the promoter DNA in order for RegA-CbbR protein-protein interactions to occur. RegA greatly enhances the ability of CbbR to bind the cbbI promoter or greatly enhances the stability of the CbbR/promoter complex. The N-terminal receiver domain and the DNA binding domain of RegA were shown to interact with CbbR. Residues in ..-helix 7 and ..-helix 8 of the DNA binding domain (helix-turn-helix) of RegA directly interacted with CbbR, with ..-helix 7 positioned immediately above the DNA and ..-helix 8 located in the major groove of the DNA. A CbbR protein containing only the DNA binding motif and the linker helix was capable of binding to RegA. In contrast, a truncated CbbR containing only the linker helix and recognition domains I and II (required for effector binding) w	2014	10	6	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Mutation; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trans-Activators; Transcription Factors	Dangel	Andrew W
24942864	10.1042/BJ20140163	Elucidation of the preferred routes of C8-vinyl reduction in chlorophyll and bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis.	Most of the chlorophylls and bacteriochlorophylls utilized for light harvesting by phototrophic organisms carry an ethyl group at the C8 position of the molecule, the product of a C8-vinyl reductase acting on a chlorophyll/bacteriochlorophyll biosynthetic precursor. Two unrelated classes of C8-vinyl reductase are known to exist, BciA and BciB, found in the purple phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 respectively. We constructed strains of each bacterium with the native C8-vinyl reductase swapped for the other class of the enzyme, and combined these replacements with a series of deletions of the native bch and chl genes. In..vivo data indicate that the preferred substrates for both classes of the enzyme is C8-vinyl chlorophyllide, with C8-vinyl protochlorophyllide reduced only under conditions in which this pigment accumulates as a result of perturbed formation of chlorophyllide. 	2014	10	28	Biochem J	The Biochemical journal	Bacteriochlorophylls; Chlorophyll; Chlorophyllides; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-CH Group Donors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis	Canniffe	Daniel P
24941957	10.1264/jsme2.me14013	Differences in survivability under starvation conditions among four species of purple nonsulfur phototrophic bacteria.	Survivability under carbon-starvation conditions was investigated in four species of purple phototrophic bacteria: Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodospirillum rubrum, and Rubrivivax gelatinosus. All these test organisms survived longer in the light than in the dark. ATP levels in the cultures were maintained in the light, which indicated that survivability was supported by photosynthesis. Survivability and tolerance against hypertonic stress in the dark was higher in Rhodopseudomonas palustris, which is widely distributed in natural environments including soils, than in the three other species. 	2016	4	14	Microbes Environ	Microbes and environments	Light; Microbial Viability; Photosynthesis; Rhodospirillaceae; Species Specificity	Kanno	Nanako
24937405	10.1021/bi500289h	Conserved glycine 232 in the ligand channel of ba3 cytochrome oxidase from Thermus thermophilus.	Knowing how the protein environment modulates ligand pathways and redox centers in the respiratory heme-copper oxidases is fundamental for understanding the relationship between the structure and function of these enzymes. In this study, we investigated the reactions of O2 and NO with the fully reduced G232V mutant of ba3 cytochrome c oxidase from Thermus thermophilus (Tt ba3) in which a conserved glycine residue in the O2 channel of the enzyme was replaced with a bulkier valine residue. Previous studies of the homologous mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides aa3 cytochrome c oxidase suggested that the valine completely blocked the access of O2 to the active site [Salomonsson, L., et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 101, 11617-11621]. Using photolabile O2 and NO carriers, we find by using time-resolved optical absorption spectroscopy that the rates of O2 and NO binding are not significantly affected in the Tt ba3 G232V mutant. Classical molecular dynamics simulations of diffusion o	2014	9	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Conserved Sequence; Crystallography, X-Ray; Cytochrome b Group; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glycine; Ligands; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Mutation; Nitric Oxide; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Conformation; Recombinant Proteins; Thermus thermophilus; Valine	McDonald	William
24922065	10.4161/rna.29440	RNase J is required for processing of a small number of RNAs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	All bacteria contain multiple exoribonucleases to ensure a fast breakdown of different RNA molecules, either for maturation or for complete degradation to the level of mononucleotides. This efficient RNA degradation plays pivotal roles in the post-transcriptional gene regulation, in RNA processing and maturation as well as in RNA quality control mechanisms and global adaption to stress conditions. Besides different 3'-to-5' exoribonucleases mostly with overlapping functions in vivo many bacteria additionally possess the 5'-to-3' exoribonuclease, RNase J, to date the only known bacterial ribonuclease with this activity. An RNA-seq approach was applied to identify specific targets of RNase J in the ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Only few transcripts were strongly affected by the lack of RNase J implying that its function is mostly required for specific processing/degradation steps in this bacterium. The accumulation of diverse RNA fragments in the RNase J deletion mutant poi	2015	6	19	RNA Biol	RNA biology	RNA decay; RNase J; ribosome degradation; Bacterial Proteins; Exoribonucleases; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, RNA	Rische-Grahl	Tom
24884846	10.1186/1471-2105-15-126	Automated ensemble assembly and validation of microbial genomes.	The continued democratization of DNA sequencing has sparked a new wave of development of genome assembly and assembly validation methods. As individual research labs, rather than centralized centers, begin to sequence the majority of new genomes, it is important to establish best practices for genome assembly. However, recent evaluations such as GAGE and the Assemblathon have concluded that there is no single best approach to genome assembly. Instead, it is preferable to generate multiple assemblies and validate them to determine which is most useful for the desired analysis; this is a labor-intensive process that is often impossible or unfeasible. To encourage best practices supported by the community, we present iMetAMOS, an automated ensemble assembly pipeline; iMetAMOS encapsulates the process of running, validating, and selecting a single assembly from multiple assemblies. iMetAMOS packages several leading open-source tools into a single binary that automates parameter selection a	2014	8	10	BMC Bioinformatics	BMC bioinformatics	Genome, Bacterial; Genome, Microbial; Genomics; Mycobacterium tuberculosis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Software	Koren	Sergey
24883103	10.1186/1754-6834-7-79	Enhanced photo-fermentative H2 production using Rhodobacter sphaeroides by ethanol addition and analysis of soluble microbial products.	Biological fermentation routes can provide an environmentally friendly way of producing H2 since they use renewable biomass as feedstock and proceed under ambient temperature and pressure. In particular, photo-fermentation has superior properties in terms of achieving high H2 yield through complete degradation of substrates. However, long-term H2 production data with stable performance is limited, and this data is essential for practical applications. In the present work, continuous photo-fermentative H2 production from lactate was attempted using the purple non-sulfur bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides KD131. As a gradual drop in H2 production was observed, we attempted to add ethanol (0.2% v/v) to the medium. As continuous operation went on, H2 production was not sustained and showed a negligible H2 yield (&lt;...0.5 mol H2/mol lactateadded) within two weeks. Electron balance analysis showed that the reason for the gradual drop in H2 production was ascribed to the increase in product	2014	6	2	Biotechnol Biofuels	Biotechnology for biofuels	Electron balance; Ethanol; Lactate; Photo-fermentative hydrogen production; Size exclusion chromatography; Soluble microbial products	Kim	Dong-Hoon
24879320	10.1371/journal.pone.0098776	Identification of key residues that confer Rhodobacter sphaeroides LPS activity at horse TLR4/MD-2.	The molecular determinants underpinning how hexaacylated lipid A and tetraacylated precursor lipid IVa activate Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) are well understood, but how activation is induced by other lipid A species is less clear. Species specificity studies have clarified how TLR4/MD-2 recognises different lipid A structures, for example tetraacylated lipid IVa requires direct electrostatic interactions for agonism. In this study, we examine how pentaacylated lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RSLPS) antagonises human TLR4/MD-2 and activates the horse receptor complex using a computational approach and cross-species mutagenesis. At a functional level, we show that RSLPS is a partial agonist at horse TLR4/MD-2 with greater efficacy than lipid IVa. These data suggest the importance of the additional acyl chain in RSLPS signalling. Based on docking analysis, we propose a model for positioning of the RSLPS lipid A moiety (RSLA) within the MD-2 cavity at the TLR4 dimer interf	2015	1	12	PLoS One	PloS one	Animals; Cell Line; HEK293 Cells; Horses; Humans; Ligands; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Mutagenesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Species Specificity; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Irvine	Katherine L
24874095	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.05.015	Immobilization of (R)- and (S)-amine transaminases on chitosan support and their application for amine synthesis using isopropylamine as donor.	Transaminases from Aspergillus fumigatus ((R)-selective, AspFum), Ruegeria pomeroyi ((S)-selective, 3HMU) and Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 ((S)-selective, 3I5T) were immobilized on chitosan with specific activities of 99, 157, and 163U/g and acceptable yields (54, 21, and 23%, respectively) for glutaraldehyde (GA) immobilization. Besides GA, also divinylsulfone was used as linker molecule leading to a similar efficient immobilization for two enzymes, GibZea and NeoFis, whereas GA was superior in the other cases. Storage of the GA-immobilized enzymes for one month resulted in increased relative activities between 120 and 180%. The thermal stability was improved, especially for the GA-immobilized AspFum compared to the free enzyme after incubation for 4h at 60..C (10% vs. 235% residual activity). Especially after incubation of AspFum (free or immobilized) for 2h at 50..C a strongly increased activity was observed (up to 359% of the initial activity). This effect was studied in more deta	2015	7	14	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Asymmetric synthesis; Biocatalysis; Enzyme activation; Immobilization; Transaminase; Amines; Biocatalysis; Chitosan; Enzyme Stability; Enzymes, Immobilized; Humans; Kinetics; Propylamines; Temperature; Transaminases	Mallin	H
24872500	10.1098/rsif.2014.0320	Modelling and analysis of bacterial tracks suggest an active reorientation mechanism in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Most free-swimming bacteria move in approximately straight lines, interspersed with random reorientation phases. A key open question concerns varying mechanisms by which reorientation occurs. We combine mathematical modelling with analysis of a large tracking dataset to study the poorly understood reorientation mechanism in the monoflagellate species Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The flagellum on this species rotates counterclockwise to propel the bacterium, periodically ceasing rotation to enable reorientation. When rotation restarts the cell body usually points in a new direction. It has been assumed that the new direction is simply the result of Brownian rotation. We consider three variants of a self-propelled particle model of bacterial motility. The first considers rotational diffusion only, corresponding to a non-chemotactic mutant strain. Two further models incorporate stochastic reorientations, describing 'run-and-tumble' motility. We derive expressions for key summary statistics an	2015	1	5	J R Soc Interface	Journal of the Royal Society, Interface	Brownian motion; bacterial motility; rotational diffusion; self-propelled particle; tracking; Cell Polarity; Computer Simulation; Mechanotransduction, Cellular; Models, Biological; Orientation; Rheology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rotation; Stress, Mechanical; Viscosity	Rosser	Gabriel
24859207	10.1016/j.biortech.2014.04.104	Biohydrogen and polyhydroxyalkanoate co-production by Enterobacter aerogenes and Rhodobacter sphaeroides from Calophyllum inophyllum oil cake.	The feasibility of coupled biohydrogen and polyhydroxyalkanoate production by Enterobacter aerogenes and Rhodobacter sphaeroides using Calophyllum inophyllum oil cake was studied under dark and photo fermentation conditions. The utilization of a non-edible acidic oil cake (C. inophyllum), and exploitation of a modified minimal salt media led to reduction in the cost of media. Cost of fermentation is reduced by implementation of alternate dark-photo fermentative periods and through the use of a co-culture consisting of a dark fermentative (E. aerogenes) and a photo fermentative (R. sphaeroides) bacterium. The biohydrogen and polyhydroxyalkanoate produced were 7.95 L H2/L media and 10.73 g/L media, respectively, under alternate dark and photo fermentation and were 3.23 L H2/L media and 5.6g/L media, respectively under complete dark fermentation. The characteristics of the oil cake and alternate dark (16 h) and photo (8h) fermentative conditions were found to be supportive in producing hi	2015	1	27	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; Calophyllum inophyllum oil cake; Dark fermentation; Photo fermentation; Polyhydroxyalkanoate; Biofuels; Biotechnology; Calophyllum; Enterobacter aerogenes; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Light; Plant Oils; Polyhydroxyalkanoates; Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Arumugam	A
24858685	10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.05.055	Structural characterization and interaction of periostin and bone morphogenetic protein for regulation of collagen cross-linking.	Periostin appears to be a unique extracellular protein secreted by fibroblasts that is upregulated following injury to the heart or changes in the environment. Periostin has the ability to associate with other critical extracellular matrix (ECM) regulators such as TGF-.., tenascin, and fibronectin, and is a critical regulator of fibrosis that functions by altering the deposition and attachment of collagen. Periostin is known to be highly expressed in carcinoma cells, but not in normal breast tissues. The protein has a structural similarity to insect fasciclin-1 (Fas 1) and can be induced by transforming growth factor-.. (TGF-..) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2. To investigate the molecular interaction of periostin and bone morphogenetic protein, we modeled these three-dimensional structures and their binding sites. We demonstrated direct interaction between periostin and BMP1/2 in vitro using several biochemical and biophysical assays. We found that the structures of the first, 	2014	8	26	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Bone morphogenetic protein; Fas1 domains; Molecular interaction; Periostin; Binding Sites; Bone Morphogenetic Protein 1; Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2; Bone Morphogenetic Proteins; Cell Adhesion Molecules; Collagen; Humans; Models, Molecular; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Sequence Alignment	Hwang	Eun Young
24832101	10.1021/bi5004266	Structural characterization and function determination of a nonspecific carboxylate esterase from the amidohydrolase superfamily with a promiscuous ability to hydrolyze methylphosphonate esters.	The uncharacterized protein Rsp3690 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a member of the amidohydrolase superfamily of enzymes. In this investigation the gene for Rsp3690 was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity, and the three-dimensional structure was determined to a resolution of 1.8 ... The protein folds as a distorted (../..)8-barrel, and the subunits associate as a homotetramer. The active site is localized to the C-terminal end of the ..-barrel and is highlighted by the formation of a binuclear metal center with two manganese ions that are bridged by Glu-175 and hydroxide. The remaining ligands to the metal center include His-32, His-34, His-207, His-236, and Asp-302. Rsp3690 was shown to catalyze the hydrolysis of a wide variety of carboxylate esters, in addition to organophosphate and organophosphonate esters. The best carboxylate ester substrates identified for Rsp3690 included 2-naphthyl acetate (kcat/Km = 1.0 .. 10(5) M(-1) s(-1)), 2-naphthyl propionate (kcat	2014	7	21	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Carboxylesterase; Crystallography, X-Ray; Esters; Hydrolysis; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Organophosphorus Compounds; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Protein Subunits; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stereoisomerism; Substrate Specificity	Xiang	Dao Feng
24824111	10.1007/s00249-014-0963-z	The binding of quinone to the photosynthetic reaction centers: kinetics and thermodynamics of reactions occurring at the QB-site in zwitterionic and anionic liposomes.	Liposomes represent a versatile biomimetic environment for studying the interaction between integral membrane proteins and hydrophobic ligands. In this paper, the quinone binding to the QB-site of the photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been investigated in liposomes prepared with either the zwitterionic phosphatidylcholine (PC) or the negatively charged phosphatidylglycerol (PG) to highlight the role of the different phospholipid polar heads. Quinone binding (K Q) and interquinone electron transfer (L AB) equilibrium constants in the two type of liposomes were obtained by charge recombination reaction of QB-depleted RC in the presence of increasing amounts of ubiquinone-10 over the temperature interval 6-35 ..C. The kinetic of the charge recombination reactions has been fitted by numerically solving the ordinary differential equations set associated with a detailed kinetic scheme involving electron transfer reactions coupled with quinone release and u	2015	1	29	Eur Biophys J	European biophysics journal : EBJ	Kinetics; Liposomes; Models, Biological; Phosphatidylcholines; Phosphatidylglycerols; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Mavelli	Fabio
24817333	10.1002/pro.2487	Toward the functional oligomerization state of tryptophan-rich sensory proteins.	A conserved family of tryptophan-rich sensory proteins (TspO) mediates the transport of heme degradation intermediates across membranes. In eukaryotes, the homologous mitochondrial translocator protein (TSPO) binds cholesterol and radioligands as monomer. On the basis of the mammalian TSPO structure, bioinformatic analysis, and a 10 .. resolution electron microscopy map of TspO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we developed a model of the tertiary and quaternary structure of TspO that is in agreement with available mutagenesis data. Our study provides insight into the conformational basis for the restricted interaction of bacterial TspO with radioligands and the functional oligomerization state of bacterial TspO proteins. 	2015	4	20	Protein Sci	Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	membrane protein; mitochondria; oligomerization; receptor; structure; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Mitochondria; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Protein Transport; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tryptophan	Jaremko	Lukasz
24793767	10.1631/jzus.B1300283	High-level soluble expression of the hemA gene from Rhodobacter capsulatus and comparative study of its enzymatic properties.	The Rhodobacter capsulatus hemA gene, which encodes 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS), was expressed in Escherichia coli Rosetta (DE3) and the enzymatic properties of the purified recombinant ALAS (RC-ALAS) were studied. Compared with ALASs encoded by hemA genes from Agrobacterium radiobacter (AR-ALAS) and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RS-ALAS), the specific activity of RC-ALAS reached 198.2 U/mg, which was about 31.2% and 69.5% higher than those of AR-ALAS (151.1 U/mg) and RS-ALAS (116.9 U/mg), respectively. The optimum pH values and temperatures of the three above mentioned enzymes were all pH 7.5 and 37 ..C, respectively. Moreover, RC-ALAS was more sensitive to pH, while the other two were sensitive to temperature. The effects of metals, ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) on the three ALASs were also investigated. The results indicate that they had the same effects on the activities of the three ALASs. SDS and metal ions such as Co(2+), Zn(2+),	2015	1	10	J Zhejiang Univ Sci B	Journal of Zhejiang University. Science. B	5-Aminolevulinic acid; Enzymatic properties; High-level expression; Rhodobacter capsulatus; 5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Aminolevulinic Acid; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Protein Engineering; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Solubility; Substrate Specificity	Lou	Jia-wei
24781745	10.1128/mBio.01105-14	A Rhodobacter sphaeroides protein mechanistically similar to Escherichia coli DksA regulates photosynthetic growth.	ABSTRACT DksA is a global regulatory protein that, together with the alarmone ppGpp, is required for the "stringent response" to nutrient starvation in the gammaproteobacterium Escherichia coli and for more moderate shifts between growth conditions. DksA modulates the expression of hundreds of genes, directly or indirectly. Mutants lacking a DksA homolog exhibit pleiotropic phenotypes in other gammaproteobacteria as well. Here we analyzed the DksA homolog RSP2654 in the more distantly related Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an alphaproteobacterium. RSP2654 is 42% identical and similar in length to E...coli DksA but lacks the Zn finger motif of the E...coli DksA globular domain. Deletion of the RSP2654 gene results in defects in photosynthetic growth, impaired utilization of amino acids, and an increase in fatty acid content. RSP2654 complements the growth and regulatory defects of an E...coli strain lacking the dksA gene and modulates transcription in vitro with E...coli RNA polymerase (RNAP)	2015	1	29	mBio	mBio	Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli Proteins; Fatty Acids; Gene Deletion; Genetic Complementation Test; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Phenotype; Photosynthesis; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Lennon	Christopher W
24755282	10.1016/j.jpain.2014.04.001	Toll-like receptor 4 signaling contributes to Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.	This paper tests the contribution of the toll-like receptors, TLR4 in particular, in the initiation and maintenance of paclitaxel-related chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. TLR4 and its immediate downstream signaling molecules-myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) and toll/interleukin 1 receptor domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-.. (TRIF)-were found to be increased in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) using Western blot by day 7 of paclitaxel treatment. The behavioral phenotype, the increase of both TLR4 and MyD88, was blocked by cotreatment with the TLR4 antagonist lipopolysaccharide-Rhodobacter sphaeroides during chemotherapy. A similar, but less robust, behavioral effect was observed using intrathecal treatment of MyD88 homodimerization inhibitory peptide. DRG levels of TLR4 and MyD88 reduced over the next 2 weeks, whereas these levels remained increased in spinal cord through day 21 following chemotherapy. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed T	2015	2	19	J Pain	The journal of pain	DRG; LPS-RS; MyD88; Neuropathy; TLR4; TRIF; spinal cord; Animals; Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic; Astrocytes; Disease Models, Animal; Ganglia, Spinal; Gene Expression Regulation; Male; Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88; Nerve Tissue Proteins; Neurons; Paclitaxel; Pain Threshold; Peripheral Nervous System Diseases; Physical Stimulation; Polysaccharides; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Signal Transduction; Time Factors; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Yan
24737244	10.1002/bit.25249	Controlling enantioselectivity of esterase in asymmetric hydrolysis of aryl prochiral diesters by introducing aromatic interactions.	Aromatic interactions specific to aryl radicals were introduced into two esterases, BioH from Escherichia coli and RspE from Rhodobacter sphaeroides to control their enantioselectivity in the asymmetric hydrolysis of prochiral aryl glutaric acid diesters. As a result, the enantiomeric excess (ee) of the S-product of dimethyl 3-phenylglutarate was increased from 25% (BioH wild type) to 96% (B_L83F/L86F) and from 13% (RspE wild type) to &gt;99% (R_Y27R), respectively, while another variant of RspE R_M121F gave a reversed ee of 50% (R-product). Similar enhancement or reversion of enantioselectivity were also observed in the hydrolysis of three other prochiral aryl diesters (dimethyl 3-(4-flouro)-phenylglutarate, dimethyl 3-(4-cholo)-phenylglutarate and dimethyl 3-(3,4-dicholo)-phenylglutarate). Especially, the mutant R_Y27R was shown to be an excellent S-selective hydrolase for prochiral aryl diesters, with ee of all S-products &gt;99%. In the mutants with altered enantioselectivity, the 	2016	5	18	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	aromatic interactions; enantioselectivity; esterase; molecular dynamics simulation; rational design; Escherichia coli; Esterases; Hydrolysis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Guo	Fei
24706737	10.1128/JB.00003-14	Role of norEF in denitrification, elucidated by physiological experiments with Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Many denitrifying organisms contain the norEF gene cluster, which codes for two proteins that are thought to be involved in denitrification because they are expressed during the reduction of nitrite and nitric oxide. The products of both genes are predicted to be membrane associated, and the norE product is a member of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit III family. However, the specific role of norEF is unknown. The denitrification phenotypes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strains with and without norEF genes were studied, and it was found that loss of norEF lowered the rate of denitrification from nitrate and resulted in accumulation of micromolar concentrations of nitric oxide during denitrification from nitrite. norEF appears to have no direct role in the reduction of nitric oxide; however, since deletion of norEF in the wild-type 2.4.3 strain had essentially no influence on the kinetics of potential nitric oxide reduction (Vmax and Ks), as measured by monitoring the depletion of a bolus 	2014	12	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Denitrification; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Nitrites; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bergaust	Linda L
24685432	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.03.012	Reaction of wild-type and Glu243Asp variant yeast cytochrome c oxidase with O2.	We have studied internal electron transfer during the reaction of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase with dioxygen. Similar absorbance changes were observed with this yeast oxidase as with the previously studied Rhodobacter sphaeroides and bovine mitochondrial oxidases, which suggests that the reaction proceeds along the same trajectory. However, notable differences were observed in rates and electron-transfer equilibrium constants of specific reaction steps, for example the ferryl (F) to oxidized (O) reaction was faster with the yeast (0.4ms) than with the bovine oxidase (~1ms) and a larger fraction CuA was oxidized with the yeast than with the bovine oxidase in the peroxy (PR) to F reaction. Furthermore, upon replacement of Glu243, located at the end of the so-called D proton pathway, by Asp the PR...F and F...O reactions were slowed by factors of ~3 and ~10, respectively, and electron transfer from CuA to heme a during the PR...F reaction was not observed. T	2014	9	25	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Cytochrome aa(3); Electron transfer; Membrane protein; Metalloprotein; Redox reaction; Respiration; Amino Acid Sequence; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation, Missense; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins	N..svik ..jemyr	Linda
24685429	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.03.011	The architecture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores.	The chromatophores of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides represent a minimal bio-energetic system, which efficiently converts light energy into usable chemical energy. Despite extensive studies, several issues pertaining to the morphology and molecular architecture of this elemental energy conversion system remain controversial or unknown. To tackle these issues, we combined electron microscope tomography, immuno-electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy. We found that the intracellular Rb. sphaeroides chromatophores form a continuous reticulum rather than existing as discrete vesicles. We also found that the cytochrome bc1 complex localizes to fragile chromatophore regions, which most likely constitute the tubular structures that interconnect the vesicles in the reticulum. In contrast, the peripheral light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) is preferentially hexagonally packed within the convex vesicular regions of the membrane network. Based on these observations, we propose that the bc1 co	2014	9	11	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Atomic force microscopy; Electron tomography; Light-harvesting complex; Membrane structure; Reaction center; Chromatophores; Cytoplasm; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Scheuring	Simon
24668172	10.7554/eLife.02151	Structure of bacterial cytoplasmic chemoreceptor arrays and implications for chemotactic signaling.	Most motile bacteria sense and respond to their environment through a transmembrane chemoreceptor array whose structure and function have been well-studied, but many species also contain an additional cluster of chemoreceptors in their cytoplasm. Although the cytoplasmic cluster is essential for normal chemotaxis in some organisms, its structure and function remain unknown. Here we use electron cryotomography to image the cytoplasmic chemoreceptor cluster in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Vibrio cholerae. We show that just like transmembrane arrays, cytoplasmic clusters contain trimers-of-receptor-dimers organized in 12-nm hexagonal arrays. In contrast to transmembrane arrays, however, cytoplasmic clusters comprise two CheA/CheW baseplates sandwiching two opposed receptor arrays. We further show that cytoplasmic fragments of normally transmembrane E. coli chemoreceptors form similar sandwiched structures in the presence of molecular crowding agents. Together these results suggest that the	2015	11	17	Elife	eLife	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibrio cholerae; chemotaxis; correlative microscopy; electron cryotomography; Chemoreceptor Cells; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; Dimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Tomography; Vibrio cholerae	Briegel	Ariane
24651049	10.4161/rna.28035	Riboregulators and the role of Hfq in photosynthetic bacteria.	Anoxygenic and oxygenic bacteria directly convert solar energy into biomass using photosynthesis. The formation and composition of photosynthetic complexes has to be tightly controlled in response to environmental conditions, as exposure to sunlight can be harmful due to the generation of reactive oxygen species and the damaging effects of UV irradiation. Therefore, photosynthetic bacteria are exposed to a particular set of regulatory challenges in addition to those that also affect other bacteria, requiring sophisticated regulatory systems. Indeed, hundreds of potential regulatory RNAs have been identified in photosynthetic model bacteria as well as antisense RNAs (asRNAs) of up to several kb in length that protect certain mRNAs from degradation. The trans-acting small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs), PcrZ and PsrR1, control pigment and photosystem biogenesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and cyanobacteria, respectively. The asRNAs IsrR and As1_flv4 act as negative regulators and the asRNAs PsbA	2015	3	30	RNA Biol	RNA biology	antisense transcription; cyanobacteria; differential RNA-seq; gene expression regulation; photosynthesis; ..-proteobacteria; Adaptation, Biological; Bacteria; Cyanobacteria; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Host Factor 1 Protein; Oxidative Stress; Photosynthesis; RNA, Antisense; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Small Untranslated	Hess	Wolfgang R
24637165	10.1016/j.bios.2014.02.050	Evaluation of a biohybrid photoelectrochemical cell employing the purple bacterial reaction centre as a biosensor for herbicides.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre is a relatively robust and tractable membrane protein that has potential for exploitation in technological applications, including biohybrid devices for photovoltaics and biosensing. This report assessed the usefulness of the photocurrent generated by this reaction centre adhered to a small working electrode as the basis for a biosensor for classes of herbicides used extensively for the control of weeds in major agricultural crops. Photocurrent generation was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by the triazides atrazine and terbutryn, but not by nitrile or phenylurea herbicides. Measurements of the effects of these herbicides on the kinetics of charge recombination in photo-oxidised reaction centres in solution showed the same selectivity of response. Titrations of reaction centre photocurrents yielded half maximal inhibitory concentrations of 208nM and 2.1..M for terbutryn and atrazine, respectively, with limits of detection estima	2015	5	14	Biosens Bioelectron	Biosensors &amp; bioelectronics	Atrazine; Biosensor; Herbicide; Photocurrent; Photovoltaics; Reaction centre; Biosensing Techniques; Electrochemistry; Equipment Design; Equipment Failure Analysis; Herbicides; Light; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Triazines	Swainsbury	David J K
24637023	10.1074/jbc.M113.546739	Chlorophyllide a oxidoreductase works as one of the divinyl reductases specifically involved in bacteriochlorophyll a biosynthesis.	Bacteriochlorophyll a is widely distributed among anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria. In bacteriochlorophyll a biosynthesis, the reduction of the C8 vinyl group in 8-vinyl-chlorophyllide a is catalyzed to produce chlorophyllide a by an 8-vinyl reductase called divinyl reductase (DVR), which has been classified into two types, BciA and BciB. However, previous studies demonstrated that mutants lacking the DVR still synthesize normal bacteriochlorophyll a with the C8 ethyl group and suggested the existence of an unknown "third" DVR. Meanwhile, we recently observed that chlorophyllide a oxidoreductase (COR) of a purple bacterium happened to show the 8-vinyl reduction of 8-vinyl-chlorophyllide a in vitro. In this study, we made a double mutant lacking BciA and COR of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides in order to investigate whether the mutant still produces pigments with the C8 ethyl group or if COR actually works as the third DVR. The single mutant deleting BciA or COR showed pr	2014	8	2	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	BciA; BciB; DVR; Evolution; Microbiology; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Bacteria; Photosynthetic Pigments; Purple Bacteria; Reductase; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biosynthetic Pathways; Chlorophyllides; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Genetic Complementation Test; Mass Spectrometry; Molecular Structure; Mutation; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Harada	Jiro
24604033	10.1007/s11120-014-9993-8	Versatile design of biohybrid light-harvesting architectures to tune location, density, and spectral coverage of attached synthetic chromophores for enhanced energy capture.	Biohybrid antennas built upon chromophore-polypeptide conjugates show promise for the design of efficient light-capturing modules for specific purposes. Three new designs, each of which employs analogs of the ..-polypeptide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, have been investigated. In the first design, amino acids at seven different positions on the polypeptide were individually substituted with cysteine, to which a synthetic chromophore (bacteriochlorin or Oregon Green) was covalently attached. The polypeptide positions are at -2, -6, -10, -14, -17, -21, and -34 relative to the 0-position of the histidine that coordinates bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a). All chromophore-polypeptides readily formed LH1-type complexes upon combination with the ..-polypeptide and BChl a. Efficient energy transfer occurs from the attached chromophore to the circular array of 875 nm absorbing BChl a molecules (denoted B875). In the second design, use of two attachment sites (positions -10 and -21) on the polypep	2015	2	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophylls; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Harris	Michelle A
24598755	10.1107/S1399004713033634	Multi-PAS domain-mediated protein oligomerization of PpsR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Per-ARNT-Sim (PAS) domains are essential modules of many multi-domain signalling proteins that mediate protein interaction and/or sense environmental stimuli. Frequently, multiple PAS domains are present within single polypeptide chains, where their interplay is required for protein function. Although many isolated PAS domain structures have been reported over the last decades, only a few structures of multi-PAS proteins are known. Therefore, the molecular mechanism of multi-PAS domain-mediated protein oligomerization and function is poorly understood. The transcription factor PpsR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is such a multi-PAS domain protein that, in addition to its three PAS domains, contains a glutamine-rich linker and a C-terminal helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif. Here, crystal structures of two N-terminally and C-terminally truncated PpsR variants that comprise a single (PpsRQ-PAS1) and two (PpsRN-Q-PAS1) PAS domains, respectively, are presented and the multi-step strategy req	2014	8	20	Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr	Acta crystallographica. Section D, Biological crystallography	AppA; N-cap; PAS dimer; Per...ARNT...Sim; coiled coil; flanking region; linker; signalling helix; ARNTL Transcription Factors; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; CLOCK Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flavoproteins; Genetic Variation; Molecular Sequence Data; Period Circadian Proteins; Photoreceptors, Microbial; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Multimerization; Protein Serine-Threonine Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Heintz	Udo
26274068	10.1021/jz402766y	Interface for Light-Driven Electron Transfer by Photosynthetic Complexes Across Block Copolymer Membranes.	Incorporation of membrane proteins into nanodevices to mediate recognition and transport in a collective and scalable fashion remains a challenging problem. We demonstrate how nanoscale photovoltaics could be designed using robust synthetic nanomembranes with incorporated photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). Specifically, RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides are reconstituted spontaneously into rationally designed polybutadiene membranes to form hierarchically organized proteopolymer membrane arrays via a charge-interaction-directed reconstitution mechanism. Once incorporated, the RCs are fully active for prolonged periods based upon a variety of spectroscopic measurements, underscoring preservation of their 3D pigment configuration critical for light-driven charge transfer. This result provides a strategy to construct solar conversion devices using structurally versatile proteopolymer membranes with integrated RC functions to harvest broad regions of the solar spectrum. 	2015	8	19	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; amphiphilic block copolymer membranes; biohybrid photoconversion; charge-interaction-directed reconstitution; membrane protein; photosynthetic reaction center	Kuang	Liangju
24586995	10.1371/journal.pone.0089734	A tale of two reductases: extending the bacteriochlorophyll biosynthetic pathway in E. coli.	The creation of a synthetic microbe that can harvest energy from sunlight to drive its metabolic processes is an attractive approach to the economically viable biosynthetic production of target compounds. Our aim is to design and engineer a genetically tractable non-photosynthetic microbe to produce light-harvesting molecules. Previously we created a modular, multienzyme system for the heterologous production of intermediates of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) pathway in E. coli. In this report we extend this pathway to include a substrate promiscuous 8-vinyl reductase that can accept multiple intermediates of BChl biosynthesis. We present an informative comparative analysis of homologues of 8-vinyl reductase from the model photosynthetic organisms Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Chlorobaculum tepidum. The first purification of the enzymes leads to their detailed biochemical and biophysical characterization. The data obtained reveal that the two 8-vinyl reductases are substrate promiscuous,	2014	10	28	PLoS One	PloS one	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Bioreactors; Biosynthetic Pathways; Chlorobi; Escherichia coli; Genetic Engineering; Molecular Sequence Data; Organisms, Genetically Modified; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Secondary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Tikh	Ilya B
24583065	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.02.020	The causes of reduced proton-pumping efficiency in type B and C respiratory heme-copper oxidases, and in some mutated variants of type A.	The heme-copper oxidases may be divided into three categories, A, B, and C, which include cytochrome c and quinol-oxidising enzymes. All three types are known to be proton pumps and are found in prokaryotes, whereas eukaryotes only contain A-type cytochrome c oxidase in their inner mitochondrial membrane. However, the bacterial B- and C-type enzymes have often been reported to pump protons with an H(+)/e(-) ratio of only one half of the unit stoichiometry in the A-type enzyme. We will show here that these observations are likely to be the result of difficulties with the measuring technique together with a higher sensitivity of the B- and C-type enzymes to the protonmotive force that opposes pumping. We find that under optimal conditions the H(+)/e(-) ratio is close to unity in all the three heme-copper oxidase subfamilies. A higher tendency for proton leak in the B- and C-type enzymes may result from less efficient gating of a proton pump mechanism that we suggest evolved before the so	2014	9	25	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Cellular respiration; Heme-copper oxidase; Heme-copper oxygen reductase; Proton pumping; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutation; Oxidoreductases; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Rauham..ki	Virve
24581555	10.1186/gb-2014-15-3-r42	A comprehensive evaluation of assembly scaffolding tools.	Genome assembly is typically a two-stage process: contig assembly followed by the use of paired sequencing reads to join contigs into scaffolds. Scaffolds are usually the focus of reported assembly statistics; longer scaffolds greatly facilitate the use of genome sequences in downstream analyses, and it is appealing to present larger numbers as metrics of assembly performance. However, scaffolds are highly prone to errors, especially when generated using short reads, which can directly result in inflated assembly statistics. Here we provide the first independent evaluation of scaffolding tools for second-generation sequencing data. We find large variations in the quality of results depending on the tool and dataset used. Even extremely simple test cases of perfect input, constructed to elucidate the behaviour of each algorithm, produced some surprising results. We further dissect the performance of the scaffolders using real and simulated sequencing data derived from the genomes of Sta	2015	3	30	Genome Biol	Genome biology	Contig Mapping; Humans; Plasmodium falciparum; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Software; Staphylococcus aureus	Hunt	Martin
24579873	10.1111/1574-6941.12303	Rhodobacter sphaeroides adaptation to high concentrations of cobalt ions requires energetic metabolism changes.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has for a long time been investigated for its adaptive capacities to different environmental and nutritional conditions, including presence of heavy metals, which make it a valuable model organism for understanding bacterial adaptation to metal stress conditions and future environmental applications, such as bioremediation of polluted sites. To further characterize the capability of R. sphaeroides to cope with high cobalt ion concentrations, we combined the selection of adaptive defective mutants, carried out by negative selection of transposon insertional libraries on 5 mM Co(2+) -enriched solid medium, with the analysis of growing capacities and transcriptome profiling of a selected mutant (R95). A comparative analysis of results from the mutant and wild-type strains clearly indicated that the adaptive ability of R. sphaeroides strongly relies on its ability to exploit any available energy-supplying metabolisms, being able to behave as photo- or chemotrophic m	2014	7	17	FEMS Microbiol Ecol	FEMS microbiology ecology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bioremediation; heavy metal stress; negative selection; transcriptomics; Adaptation, Physiological; Cations, Divalent; Cobalt; Energy Metabolism; Gene Expression Profiling; Operon; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Volpicella	Mariateresa
24568563	10.1021/ja411843k	Reengineering the optical absorption cross-section of photosynthetic reaction centers.	Engineered cysteine residues near the primary electron donor (P) of the reaction center from the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides were covalently conjugated to each of several dye molecules in order to explore the geometric design and spectral requirements for energy transfer between an artificial antenna system and the reaction center. An average of 2.5 fluorescent dye molecules were attached at specific locations near P. The enhanced absorbance cross-section afforded by conjugation of Alexa Fluor 660 dyes resulted in a 2.2-fold increase in the formation of reaction center charge-separated state upon intensity-limited excitation at 650 nm. The effective increase in absorbance cross-section resulting from the conjugation of two other dyes, Alexa Fluor 647 and Alexa Fluor 750, was also investigated. The key parameters that dictate the efficiency of dye-to-reaction center energy transfer and subsequent charge separation were examined using both steady-state and tim	2014	11	25	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Absorption; Cytochromes c; Energy Transfer; Models, Molecular; Optical Phenomena; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dutta	Palash K
24559494	10.1080/07391102.2014.880657	High-resolution crystal structure of the recombinant diheme cytochrome c from Shewanella baltica (OS155).	Multiheme cytochromes c (cyts c) are c-type cyts characterized by non-standard structural and spectroscopic properties. The relative disposition of the heme cofactors in the core of these proteins is conserved and they can be classified from their geometry in two main groups. In one group the porphyrin planes are arranged in a perpendicular fashion, while in the other they are parallel. Orientation of the heme groups is a key factor that regulates the intramolecular electron transfer pathway. A 16.5 kDa diheme cyt c, isolated from the bacterium Shewanella baltica OS155 (Sb-DHC), was cloned and expressed in E. coli and its structure was investigated by X-ray crystallography. Using high-resolution data (1.14 ..) collected at ELETTRA (Trieste), the crystal structure, with an orthorhombic cell (a = 40.81, b = 42.97, c = 82.07 ..), was solved using the homologous diheme from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rs-DHC) as the initial model. The electron density map of the refined structure (Rfact of 13	2016	1	11	J Biomol Struct Dyn	Journal of biomolecular structure &amp; dynamics	biocrystallography; cytochrome c; diheme; edge to edge; electron transfer; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Oxidoreductases; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Shewanella	De March	Matteo
24530865	10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.02.003	Integration of energy and electron transfer processes in the photosynthetic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthesis converts absorbed solar energy to a protonmotive force, which drives ATP synthesis. The membrane network of chlorophyll-protein complexes responsible for light absorption, photochemistry and quinol (QH2) production has been mapped in the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides using atomic force microscopy (AFM), but the membrane location of the cytochrome bc1 (cytbc1) complexes that oxidise QH2 to quinone (Q) to generate a protonmotive force is unknown. We labelled cytbc1 complexes with gold nanobeads, each attached by a Histidine10 (His10)-tag to the C-terminus of cytc1. Electron microscopy (EM) of negatively stained chromatophore vesicles showed that the majority of the cytbc1 complexes occur as dimers in the membrane. The cytbc1 complexes appeared to be adjacent to reaction centre light-harvesting 1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) complexes, consistent with AFM topographs of a gold-labelled membrane. His-tagged cytbc1 complexes were retrieved from chromatopho	2014	10	9	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Atomic force microscopy; Bacterial photosynthesis; Cytochrome bc(1); Electron microscopy; Membrane modelling; Quinone; Base Sequence; DNA Primers; Electron Transport; Mass Spectrometry; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Cartron	Micha..l L
24520058	10.1128/mBio.00933-13	Prediction and biochemical demonstration of a catabolic pathway for the osmoprotectant proline betaine.	Through the use of genetic, enzymatic, metabolomic, and structural analyses, we have discovered the catabolic pathway for proline betaine, an osmoprotectant, in Paracoccus denitrificans and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Genetic and enzymatic analyses showed that several of the key enzymes of the hydroxyproline betaine degradation pathway also function in proline betaine degradation. Metabolomic analyses detected each of the metabolic intermediates of the pathway. The proline betaine catabolic pathway was repressed by osmotic stress and cold stress, and a regulatory transcription factor was identified. We also report crystal structure complexes of the P. denitrificans HpbD hydroxyproline betaine epimerase/proline betaine racemase with l-proline betaine and cis-hydroxyproline betaine. At least half of the extant protein annotations are incorrect, and the errors propagate as the number of genome sequences increases exponentially. A large-scale, multidisciplinary sequence- and structure-based s	2014	8	26	mBio	mBio	Amino Acid Isomerases; Cold Temperature; Crystallography, X-Ray; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Metabolome; Osmotic Pressure; Paracoccus denitrificans; Proline; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Kumar	Ritesh
24509770	10.1007/s00253-014-5527-8	BioBrick... compatible vector system for protein expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We report here the creation of a modular, plasmid-based protein expression system utilizing elements of the native Rhodobacter puf promoter in a BioBrick(TM)-based vector system with DsRed encoding a red fluorescent reporter protein. A suite of truncations of the puf promoter were made to assess the influence of different portions of this promoter on expression of heterologous proteins. The 3' end of puf was found to be particularly important for increasing expression, with transformants accumulating significant quantities of DsRed under both aerobic and anaerobic growth conditions. Expression levels of this reporter protein in Rhodobacter sphaeroides were comparable to those achieved in Escherichia coli using the strong, constitutive P lac promoter, thus demonstrating the robustness of the engineered system. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability to tune the designed expression system by modulating cellular DsRed levels based upon the promoter segment utilized and oxygenation conditi	2014	11	14	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression; Genes, Reporter; Genetic Vectors; Genetics, Microbial; Luminescent Proteins; Molecular Biology; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopsin; Rhodopsins, Microbial; Transformation, Bacterial	Tikh	Ilya B
24497982	10.1371/journal.pone.0086830	Molecular cloning, overexpression and characterization of a novel water channel protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Aquaporins are highly selective water channel proteins integrated into plasma membranes of single cell organisms; plant roots and stromae; eye lenses, renal and red blood cells in vertebrates. To date, only a few microbial aquaporins have been characterized and their physiological importance is not well understood. Here we report on the cloning, expression and characterization of a novel aquaporin, RsAqpZ, from a purple photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides ATCC 17023. The protein was expressed homologously at a high yield (...20 mg/L culture) under anaerobic photoheterotrophic growth conditions. Stopped-flow light scattering experiments demonstrated its high water permeability (0.17..0.05 cm/s) and low energy of activation for water transport (2.93..0.60 kcal/mol) in reconstituted proteoliposomes at a protein to lipid ratio (w/w) of 0.04. We developed a fluorescence correlation spectroscopy based technique and utilized a fluorescent protein fusion of RsAqpZ, to estimate th	2014	10	28	PLoS One	PloS one	Algorithms; Amino Acid Sequence; Aquaporins; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Blotting, Western; Cell Membrane Permeability; Cloning, Molecular; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Liposomes; Luminescent Proteins; Microscopy, Electron; Models, Biological; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Water	Erbakan	Mustafa
24463291	10.3390/ijms15021686	Chronic exposure to Rhodobacter sphaeroides extract Lycogen... prevents UVA-induced malondialdehyde accumulation and procollagen I down-regulation in human dermal fibroblasts.	UVA contributes to the pathogenesis of skin aging by downregulation of procollagen I content and induction of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-associated responses. Application of antioxidants such as lycopene has been demonstrated as a convenient way to achieve protection against skin aging. Lycogen..., derived from the extracts of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, exerts several biological effects similar to that of lycopene whereas most of its anti-aging efficacy remains uncertain. In this study, we attempted to examine whether Lycogen... could suppress malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulation and restore downregulated procollagen I expression induced by UVA exposure. In human dermal fibroblasts Hs68 cells, UVA repressed cell viability and decreased procollagen I protein content accompanied with the induction of MMP-1 and MDA accumulation. Remarkably, incubation with 50 ..M Lycogen... for 24 h ameliorated UVA-induced cell death and restored UVA-induced downregulation of procollagen in a dose-related	2014	12	18	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Biological Products; Cell Death; Cell Survival; Collagen Type I; Down-Regulation; Fibroblasts; Humans; Malondialdehyde; Matrix Metalloproteinase 1; NF-kappa B; Procollagen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ultraviolet Rays	Yang	Tsai-Hsiu
24460372	10.1021/la404160b	Hybrid assemblies of fluorescent nanocrystals and membrane proteins in liposomes.	Because of the growing potential of nanoparticles in biological and medical applications, tuning and directing their properties toward a high compatibility with the aqueous biological milieu is of remarkable relevance. Moreover, the capability to combine nanocrystals (NCs) with biomolecules, such as proteins, offers great opportunities to design hybrid systems for both nanobiotechnology and biomedical technology. Here we report on the application of the micelle-to-vesicle transition (MVT) method for incorporation of hydrophobic, red-emitting CdSe@ZnS NCs into the bilayer of liposomes. This method enabled the construction of a novel hybrid proteo-NC-liposome containing, as model membrane protein, the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Electron microscopy confirmed the insertion of NCs within the lipid bilayer without significantly altering the structure of the unilamellar vesicles. The resulting aqueous NC-liposome suspensions showed low turbidity and kept u	2014	10	6	Langmuir	Langmuir : the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids	Bacterial Proteins; Cadmium Compounds; Fluorescent Dyes; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Liposomes; Micelles; Nanoparticles; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selenium Compounds; Sulfides; Zinc Compounds	De Leo	Vincenzo
24438185	10.1111/1348-0421.12134	Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a novel tumor-targeting bacteria that emits natural near-infrared fluorescence.	Several optical imaging techniques have been used to monitor bacterial tropisms for cancer. Most such techniques require genetic engineering of the bacteria to express optical reporter genes. This study investigated a novel tumor-targeting strain of bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 (R. sphaeroides), which naturally emits near-infrared fluorescence, thereby facilitating the visualization of bacterial tropisms for cancer. To determine the penetration depth of bacterial fluorescence, various numbers of cells (from 10(8) to 10(10) ...CFU) of R. sphaeroides and two types of Escherichia coli, which stably express green fluorescent protein (GFP) or red fluorescent protein (RFP), were injected s.c. or i.m. into mice. Bacterial tropism for cancer was determined after i.v. injection of R. sphaeroides (10(8) ...CFU) into mice implanted s.c. with eight types of tumors. The intensity of the fluorescence signal in deep tissue (muscle) from R. sphaeroides was much stronger than from E. coli-ex	2014	10	23	Microbiol Immunol	Microbiology and immunology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; near-infrared; tumor targeting; Animals; C-Reactive Protein; Calcitonin; Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide; Drug Delivery Systems; Fluorescence; HeLa Cells; Humans; Infrared Rays; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Mice, Nude; Neoplasms; Protein Precursors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kwon	Seong Young
24437652	10.1021/jp411023k	Nuclear hyperfine and quadrupole tensor characterization of the nitrogen hydrogen bond donors to the semiquinone of the QB site in bacterial reaction centers: a combined X- and S-band (14,15)N ESEEM and DFT study.	The secondary quinone anion radical QB(-) (SQB) in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides interacts with N.. of His-L190 and Np (peptide nitrogen) of Gly-L225 involved in hydrogen bonds to the QB carbonyls. In this work, S-band (...3.6 GHz) ESEEM was used with the aim of obtaining a complete characterization of the nuclear quadrupole interaction (nqi) tensors for both nitrogens by approaching the cancelation condition between the isotropic hyperfine coupling and (14)N Zeeman frequency at lower microwave frequencies than traditional X-band (9.5 GHz). By performing measurements at S-band, we found a dominating contribution of N.. in the form of a zero-field nqi triplet at 0.55, 0.92, and 1.47 MHz, defining the quadrupole coupling constant K = e(2)qQ/4h = 0.4 MHz and associated asymmetry parameter .. = 0.69. Estimates of the hyperfine interaction (hfi) tensors for N.. and Np were obtained from simulations of 1D and 2D (14,15)N X-band and three-pulse (14)N S-band spectra with all nucl	2014	9	30	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Benzoquinones; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Nitrogen; Quantum Theory	Taguchi	Alexander T
24433029	10.1021/jp4100476	Role of electronic-vibrational mixing in enhancing vibrational coherences in the ground electronic states of photosynthetic bacterial reaction center.	We describe polarization controlled two-color coherence photon echo studies of the reaction center complex from a purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Long-lived oscillatory signals that persist up to 2 ps are observed in neutral, oxidized, and mutant (lacking the special pair) reaction centers, for both (0..,0..,0..,0..) and (45..,-45..,90..,0..) polarization sequences. We show that the long-lived signals arise via vibronic coupling of the bacteriopheophytin (H) and accessory bacteriochlorophyll (B) pigments that leads to vibrational wavepackets in the B ground electronic state. Fourier analysis of the data suggests that the 685 cm(-1) mode of B may play a key role in the H to B energy transfer. 	2014	9	30	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electrons; Energy Transfer; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibration	Ryu	Ian Seungwan
24405948	10.1366/13-07188	Phase-sensitive detection in modulation excitation spectroscopy applied to potential induced electron transfer in cytochrome c oxidase.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated by modulated excitation surface-enhanced infrared-absorption spectroscopy (SEIRAS). Sequential electron transfer (ET) within CcO was initiated by electrochemical excitation. During modulated excitation by periodic potential pulses with frequencies between 20 and 500 Hz, time-resolved infrared spectra were measured by the step-scan technique, with time resolution in the millisecond range. Conformational changes of the protein structure as a result of ET lead to rather complex SEIRA spectra with many overlapping bands embedded in a broad background signal. Phase-sensitive detection (PSD) was used to separate single components within the broad band of overlapping structural bands in the amide I region. PSD is able to extract the periodic response of single components with the same frequency as the excitation from noise or from static background and therefore enhances the signal-to-noise ratio. Moreover, PSD enables v	2014	9	22	Appl Spectrosc	Applied spectroscopy	Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Schwaighofer	Andreas
24397338	10.1021/bi401535q	Role of the N-terminus of subunit III in proton uptake in cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The catalytic core of cytochrome c oxidase consists of three subunits that are conserved across species. The N-terminus of subunit III contains three histidine residues (3, 7, and 10) that are surface-exposed, have physiologically relevant pKa values, and are in close proximity of the mouth of the D-channel in subunit I. A triple-histidine mutation (to glutamine) was created in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The mutant enzyme retains 60% of wild-type activity. Absorbance during steady-state turnover indicates that electrons accumulate at heme a in the mutant, accompanied by accumulation of the oxoferryl intermediate. When reconstituted into liposomes, the mutant enzyme pumps protons with an efficiency that is half that of the wild type. Finally, the mutant exhibits a lower cytochrome c peroxidation rate. Our results indicate that the mutation lowers activity indirectly by slowing the uptake of protons through the D-channel and that the three histidine residues stabilize the interactions betw	2014	3	25	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Catalytic Domain; Electron Transport Complex IV; Glutamine; Histidine; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Models, Molecular; Protein Subunits; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Alnajjar	Khadijeh S
24094148	10.1089/ars.2013.5349	Disulfide-containing high mobility group box-1 promotes N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function and excitotoxicity by activating Toll-like receptor 4-dependent signaling in hippocampal neurons.	Using primary cultures of mouse hippocampal neurons, we studied the molecular and functional interactions between high mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) and the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), two proteins playing a key role in neuronal hyperexcitability. By measuring NMDA-induced calcium (Ca(2+)) increase in neuronal somata and neurotoxicity as functional read-out parameters, we explored the role of the redox state of HMGB1, the receptor involved, and the molecular signaling underlying its interactions with postsynaptic NMDAR. We also investigated whether HMGB1 redox state affects its proconvulsive effects in mice. Nonoxidizable HMGB1 with a triple cysteine-to-serine replacement (3S-HMGB1) was ineffective on NMDA response. Conversely, the disulfide-containing form of HMGB1 dose dependently enhanced NMDA-induced Ca(2+) increase in neuronal cell bodies. This effect was prevented by BoxA, a competitive HMGB1 antagonist, and by Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipopolysaccharide (LPS-RS), a toll	2015	10	26	Antioxid Redox Signal	Antioxidants &amp; redox signaling	Animals; Disulfides; HMGB1 Protein; Hippocampus; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Knockout; Neurons; Oxidation-Reduction; Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Balosso	Silvia
26709304	10.1016/j.aca.2015.11.020	Profiling of ornithine lipids in bacterial extracts of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by reversed-phase liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization and multistage mass spectrometry (RPLC-ESI-MS(n)).	Ornithine lipids (OLs), a sub-group of the large (and of emerging interest) family of lipoamino acids of bacterial origin, contain a 3-hydroxy fatty acyl chain linked via an amide bond to the ..-amino group of ornithine and via an ester bond to a second fatty acyl chain. OLs in extracts of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R...sphaeroides) were investigated by high-performance reversed phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) in negative ion mode using a linear ion trap (LIT). The presence of OLs bearing both saturated (i.e, 16:0, 17:0, 18:0, 19:0 and 20:0) and unsaturated chains (i.e., 18:1, 19:1, 19:2 and 20:1) was ascertained and their identification, even for isomeric, low abundance and partially co-eluting species, was achieved by low-energy collision induced dissociation (CID) multistage mass spectrometry (MS(n), n..=..2-4). OLs signatures found in two R...sphaeroides strains, i.e., wild type 2.4.1 and mutant R26, were examined and up to 1	2016	8	12	Anal Chim Acta	Analytica chimica acta	Lipoamino acids; Liquid chromatography; Monounsaturated fatty acids; Ornithine lipids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tandem MS; Chromatography, Reverse-Phase; Lipids; Ornithine; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization	Granafei	Sara
26707617	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.12.007	Mimicking respiratory phosphorylation using purified enzymes.	The enzymes of oxidative phosphorylation is a striking example of the functional association of multiple enzyme complexes, working together to form ATP from cellular reducing equivalents. These complexes, such as cytochrome c oxidase or the ATP synthase, are typically investigated individually and therefore, their functional interplay is not well understood. Here, we present methodology that allows the co-reconstitution of purified terminal oxidases and ATP synthases in synthetic liposomes. The enzymes are functionally coupled via proton translocation where upon addition of reducing equivalents the oxidase creates and maintains a transmembrane electrochemical proton gradient that energizes the synthesis of ATP by the F1F0 ATP synthase. The method has been tested with the ATP synthases from Escherichia coli and spinach chloroplasts, and with the quinol and cytochrome c oxidases from E. coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, respectively. Unlike in experiments with the ATP synthase reconstitu	2016	6	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	ATP synthesis; Ionophore; Lateral proton diffusion; Liposomes; Mild uncoupling; Respiratory chain; Adenosine Triphosphate; Carbonyl Cyanide p-Trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone; Electron Transport Complex IV; Mitochondrial Proton-Translocating ATPases; Molecular Mimicry; Oxidative Phosphorylation	von Ballmoos	Christoph
26702949	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.12.006	Temperature dependent LH1...RC energy transfer in purple bacteria Tch. tepidum with shiftable LH1-Qy band: A natural system to investigate thermally activated energy transfer in photosynthesis.	The native LH1-RC complex of the purple bacterium Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum has an ultra-red LH1-Qy absorption at 915nm, which can shift to 893 and 882nm by means of chemical modifications. These unique complexes are a good natural system to investigate the thermally activated energy transfer process, with the donor energies different while the other factors (such as the acceptor energy, special pair at 890nm, and the distance/relative orientation between the donor and acceptor) remain the same. The native B915-RC, B893-RC and B882-RC complexes, as well as the LH1-RC complex of Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides were studied by temperature-dependent time-resolved absorption spectroscopy. The energy transfer time constants, kET(-1), are 65, 45, 46 and 45ps at room temperature while 225, 58, 85, 33ps at 77K for the B915-RC, B893-RC, B882-RC and Rba. sphaeroides LH1-RC, respectively. The dependences of kET on temperature have different trends. The reorganization energies are determined 	2016	6	2	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	LH1...RC energy transfer; Thermally activated energy transfer; Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum; Time-resolved absorption spectroscopy; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Temperature	Ma	Fei
26644432	10.1128/JB.00877-15	Hypothetical Protein BB0569 Is Essential for Chemotaxis of the Lyme Disease Spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi.	The Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi has five putative methyl-accepting chemotaxis proteins (MCPs). In this report, we provide evidence that a hypothetical protein, BB0569, is essential for the chemotaxis of B. burgdorferi. While BB0569 lacks significant homology to the canonical MCPs, it contains a conserved domain (spanning residues 110 to 170) that is often evident in membrane-bound MCPs such as Tar and Tsr of Escherichia coli. Unlike Tar and Tsr, BB0569 lacks transmembrane regions and recognizable HAMP and methylation domains and is similar to TlpC, a cytoplasmic chemoreceptor of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. An isogenic mutant of BB0569 constantly runs in one direction and fails to respond to attractants, indicating that BB0569 is essential for chemotaxis. Immunofluorescence, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion, and cryo-electron tomography analyses demonstrate that BB0569 localizes at the cell poles and is required for chemoreceptor clustering at the cell poles. Protein	2016	6	6	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Borrelia burgdorferi; Chemotaxis; Humans; Lyme Disease; Molecular Sequence Data; Sequence Alignment	Zhang	Kai
26630123	10.1021/acs.jpca.5b08366	Mutations to R. sphaeroides Reaction Center Perturb Energy Levels and Vibronic Coupling but Not Observed Energy Transfer Rates.	The bacterial reaction center is capable of both efficiently collecting and quickly transferring energy within the complex; therefore, the reaction center serves as a convenient model for both energy transfer and charge separation. To spectroscopically probe the interactions between the electronic excited states on the chromophores and their intricate relationship with vibrational motions in their environment, we examine coherences between the excited states. Here, we investigate this question by introducing a series of point mutations within 12 .. of the special pair of bacteriochlorophylls in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center. Using two-dimensional spectroscopy, we find that the time scales of energy transfer dynamics remain unperturbed by these mutations. However, within these spectra, we detect changes in the mixed vibrational-electronic coherences in these reaction centers. Our results indicate that resonance between bacteriochlorophyll vibrational modes and excitonic en	2016	11	7	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Energy Transfer; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Flanagan	Moira L
26623932	10.1021/acs.biochem.5b01251	Correction to The Semiquinone at the Q(i) Site of the bc1 Complex Explored Using HYSCORE Spectroscopy and Specific Isotopic Labeling of Ubiquinone in Rhodobacter sphaeroides via (13)C Methionine and Construction of a Methionine Auxotroph.	NA	2016	3	31	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	NA	Hong	Sangjin
26616115	10.1002/bit.25886	Metabolic engineering of Corynebacterium glutamicum for efficient production of 5-aminolevulinic acid.	5-Aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) has recently attracted attention for its potential applications in the fields of medicine and agriculture. In this study, Corynebacterium glutamicum was firstly engineered for 5-ALA production via the C4 pathway. HemA encoding 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was codon optimized and expressed in C. glutamicum ATCC13032, resulting in accumulation of 5-ALA. Deletion of all known genes responsible for the formation of acetate and lactate further enhanced production of 5-ALA. Overexpression of ppc gene encoding phoenolpyruvate carboxylase resulted in an accumulation of 5-ALA up to 2.06........0.05...g/L. Furthermore, deletion of high-molecular-weight penicillin-binding proteins (HMW-PBPs) genes pbp1a, pbp1b, and pbp2b led to an increase in 5-ALA production of 13.53%, 29.47%, and 22.22%, respectively. Finally, 5-ALA production was enhanced to 3.14........0.02...g/L in shake flask by heterologously expressing rhtA encoding threonine/ho	2017	6	13	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	5-aminolevulinic acid; C4 pathway; Corynebacterium glutamicum; cell permeability; penicillin-binding proteins; 5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Corynebacterium glutamicum; Genetic Enhancement; Metabolic Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Up-Regulation	Feng	Lili
26613000	10.1186/s13068-015-0375-z	Bioaugmentation of Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus TISTR 895 to enhance bio-hydrogen production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides KKU-PS5.	Bioaugmentation or an addition of the desired microorganisms or specialized microbial strains into the anaerobic digesters can enhance the performance of microbial community in the hydrogen production process. Most of the studies focused on a bioaugmentation of native microorganisms capable of producing hydrogen with the dark-fermentative hydrogen producers while information on bioaugmentation of purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria (PNSB) with lactic acid-producing bacteria (LAB) is still limited. In our study, bioaugmentation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides KKU-PS5 with Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus TISTR 895 was conducted as a method to produce hydrogen. Unfortunately, even though well-characterized microorganisms were used in the fermentation system, a cultivation of two different organisms in the same bioreactor was still difficult because of the differences in their metabolic types, optimal conditions, and nutritional requirements. Therefore, evaluation of the physica	2015	11	27	Biotechnol Biofuels	Biotechnology for biofuels	Bio-hydrogen; Dark fermentative bacteria; Lactic acid-producing bacteria; Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria	Laocharoen	Sucheera
26607360	10.1007/s00284-015-0941-4	Enhanced Hydrogen Production by Co-cultures of Hydrogenase and Nitrogenase in Escherichia coli.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a bacterium that can produce hydrogen by interaction with hydrogenase and nitrogenase. We report a hydrogen production system using co-cultivation of hydrogenase in liquid medium and immobilized nitrogenase in Escherichia coli. The recombinant plasmid has been constructed to analyze the effect of hydrogen production on the expression of hupSL hydrogenase and nifHDK nitrogenase isolated from R. sphaeroides. All recombinant E. coli strains were cultured anaerobically, and cells for nitrogenase were immobilized in agar gel, whereas cells for hydrogenase were supplemented on the nitrogenase agar gel. The hupSL hydrogenase has been observed to enhance hydrogen production and hydrogenase activity under co-culture with nifHDK nitrogenase. The maximum hydrogen production has been obtained at an agar gel concentration and a cell concentration for co-culture of 2 % and 6.4 .. 10(8) CFU. Thus, co-culture of hupSL hydrogenase and nifHDK nitrogenase provides a promising r	2016	10	25	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Anaerobiosis; Culture Media; Enzymes, Immobilized; Escherichia coli; Gels; Hydrogen; Hydrogenase; Nitrogenase; Plasmids; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Hyun Jeong
26602144	10.1016/j.biortech.2015.10.049	An unexpected negative influence of light intensity on hydrogen production by dark fermentative bacteria Clostridium beijerinckii.	The role of light intensity on biohydrogen production from glucose by Clostridium beijerinckii, Clostridium acetobutylicum, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied to evaluate the performance and possible application in co-culture fermentation system. The applied source of light had spectrum similar to the solar radiation. The influence of light intensity on hydrogen production in dark process by C. acetobutylicum was negligible. In contrast, dark fermentation by C. beijerinckii bacteria showed a significant decrease (83%) in produced hydrogen at light intensity of 540W/m(2). Here, the redirection of metabolism from acetic and butyric acid formation towards lactic acid was observed. This not yet reported effect was probably caused by irradiation of these bacteria by light within UVA range, which is an important component of the solar radiation. The excessive illumination with light of intensity higher than 200W/m(2) resulted in decrease in hydrogen production with photofermentative bac	2016	12	19	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; C. beijerinckii; Dark fermentation; Light intensity; Photofermentation; Biofuels; Clostridium acetobutylicum; Clostridium beijerinckii; Coculture Techniques; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Industrial Microbiology; Light; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zagrodnik	R
26592038		[Improving Agricultural Safety of Soils Contaminated with Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons by In Situ Bioremediation].	In order to reduce the risk of enrichment of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in crops, reduce the potential hazards of food-sourced PAHs to human and increase the agricultural safety of PAHs contaminated soils, the bio-augmented removal of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) was investigated through in situ remediation by introducing Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RS) into the agricultural soil contaminated by PAHs. The 50-times diluted RS was sprayed on leaf surface (in area B) or irrigated to roots (in area D). The treatment of spraying water of the equal amount was taken as the control (A) and the wheat field without any treatment as the blank (CK). Treatments were conducted since wheat seeding. Soil and wheat samples were collected in the mature period to analyze the changes of community structure of the soil microorganisms and the concentration of PAHs in soils and investigate the strengthening and restoration effects of RS on PAHs contaminated soils. Compared to the CK Area	2015	12	15	Huan Jing Ke Xue	Huan jing ke xue= Huanjing kexue	Agriculture; Biodegradation, Environmental; Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil; Soil Microbiology; Soil Pollutants; Triticum	Jiao	Hai-huan
26580083	10.1021/acs.biochem.5b00658	Universal Stress Protein Regulates Electron Transfer and Superoxide Generation Activities of the Cytochrome bc1 Complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Interactions between Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc1 complex (Rsbc1) and soluble cytosolic proteins were studied by a precipitation pull-down technique. After being purified, detergent-dispersed Rsbc1 complex was incubated with soluble cytosolic fraction and then dialyzed in the absence of detergent; the interacting proteins were coprecipitated with Rsbc1 complex upon centrifugation. One of the cytosolic proteins pulled down by Rsbc1 complex was identified by liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to be the reported R. sphaeroides universal stress protein (UspA). Incubating purified UspA with the detergent dispersed bc1 complex resulted in an increase in the Rsbc1 complex activity by 60% and a decrease in superoxide generation activity by the complex by more than 70%. These UspA effects were only observed with Rsbc1 complexes containing subunit IV and assayed under aerobic conditions. These results suggest that the interaction between UspA and Rsbc1 co	2016	4	15	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, Liquid; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Superoxides; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Su	Ting
26574514	10.1128/JB.00836-15	Biochemical Characterization of the Flagellar Rod Components of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: Properties and Interactions.	The flagellar basal body is a rotary motor that spans the cytoplasmic and outer membranes. The rod is a drive shaft that transmits torque generated by the motor through the hook to the filament that propels the bacterial cell. The assembly and structure of the rod are poorly understood. In a first attempt to characterize this structure in the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we overexpressed and purified FliE and the four related rod proteins (FlgB, FlgC, FlgF, and FlgG), and we analyzed their ability to form homo-oligomers. We found that highly purified preparations of these proteins formed high-molecular-mass oligomers that tended to dissociate in the presence of NaCl. As predicted by in silico modeling, the four rod proteins share architectural features. Using affinity blotting, we detected the heteromeric interactions between these proteins. In addition, we observed that deletion of the N- and C-terminal regions of FlgF and FlgG severely affected heteromeric but not ho	2016	5	31	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; DNA, Bacterial; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Molecular Sequence Data; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Osorio-Valeriano	Manuel
26574182	10.1021/acs.biochem.5b00959	Top-Down Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Membrane-Bound Light-Harvesting Complex 2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We report a top-down proteomic analysis of the membrane-bound peripheral light-harvesting complex LH2 isolated from the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The LH2 complex is coded for by the puc operon. The Rb. sphaeroides genome contains two puc operons, designated puc1BAC and puc2BA. Although previous work has shown consistently that the LH2 .. polypeptide coded by the puc2B gene was assembled into LH2 complexes, there are contradictory reports as to whether the Puc2A polypeptides are incorporated into LH2 complexes. Furthermore, post-translational modifications of this protein offer the prospect that it could coordinate bacteriochlorophyll a (Bchl a) by a modified N-terminal residue. Here, we describe the components of the LH2 complex on the basis of electron-capture dissociation fragmentation to confirm the identity and sequence of the protein's subunits. We found that both gene products of the .. polypeptides are expressed and assembled in the mature LH2 comp	2016	4	11	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mass Spectrometry; Operon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lu	Yue
26565434	10.1080/09593330.2015.1064168	Free Fe(3+)/Fe(2+) improved the biomass resource recovery and organic matter removal in Rhodobacter sphaeroides purification of sewage.	The enhancement in biomass production and organic matter removal of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides) through iron ions in soybean protein wastewater treatment was investigated. Different dosages of ferric ions were introduced in the reactors under light-anaerobic conditions. Free ferric and ferrous ions in wastewater were formed and their concentrations were the optimal for the growth of R. sphaeroides when the total Fe dosage was 20...mg/L. At the optimal dosage, biomass production (4000...mg/L) and protease activity improved by 50% and 48% when compared to the controls, respectively. The organic matter and protein removal reached above 90% and hydraulic retention time was shortened from 96 to 72...h. A mechanism analysis indicated that iron ions can effectively improve the adenosine triphosphate production, which may furthermore encourage the synthesis of protease and the cellular material. 	2016	8	31	Environ Technol	Environmental technology	Fe3+; biomass production; free Fe3+/Fe2+; purple non-sulphur bacteria; soybean protein wastewater; Anaerobiosis; Biological Oxygen Demand Analysis; Biomass; Bioreactors; Ferric Compounds; Light; Plant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sewage; Soybeans; Waste Disposal, Fluid	Liu	Rijia
26544923	10.1139/cjpp-2015-0219	LPS-RS attenuation of lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury involves NF-..B inhibition.	In this study, we studied the effect of lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS), an inhibitor of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), in LPS-induced acute lung injury (ALI). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with LPS-RS (0.1 mg/kg body mass, by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection) 1 h before LPS injection (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung tissues were collected 24 h later to determine total and differential cell count, total protein content, levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), histopathological changes, markers of oxidative stress, and mRNA expression of the inhibitory protein nuclear factor kappaB-.. (NF..BIA) and TLR4. Additionally, rings of pulmonary artery were isolated for measuring vascular reactivity. LPS-induced ALI was indicated by increases in total and differential cell count, total protein, and LDH in BALF, and increased lung levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), as well as decreased activity of reduced glutathione (GSH) and superoxide d	2019	11	20	Can J Physiol Pharmacol	Canadian journal of physiology and pharmacology	LPS-RS; NF..BIA; TLR4; acute lung injury; lipopolysaccharide; l..sion pulmonaire aigu..	Abdelmageed	Marwa E
26537891	10.1186/s12864-015-2162-4	Analysis of the FnrL regulon in Rhodobacter capsulatus reveals limited regulon overlap with orthologues from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Escherichia coli.	FNR homologues constitute an important class of transcription factors that control a wide range of anaerobic physiological functions in a number of bacterial species. Since FNR homologues are some of the most pervasive transcription factors, an understanding of their involvement in regulating anaerobic gene expression in different species sheds light on evolutionary similarity and differences. To address this question, we used a combination of high throughput RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq analysis to define the extent of the FnrL regulon in Rhodobacter capsulatus and related our results to that of FnrL in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and FNR in Escherichia coli. Our RNA-seq results show that FnrL affects the expression of 807 genes, which accounts for over 20 % of the Rba. capsulatus genome. ChIP-seq results indicate that 42 of these genes are directly regulated by FnrL. Importantly, this includes genes involved in the synthesis of the anoxygenic photosystem. Similarly, FnrL in Rba. sphaeroides affe	2016	7	1	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Photosynthesis; Regulon; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology; Trans-Activators	Kumka	Joseph E
26531011	10.1134/S0006297915060012	Different effects of identical symmetry-related mutations near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC), asymmetric protein environment of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) dimer largely determines the photophysical and photochemical properties of the primary electron donor. Previously, we noticed significant differences in properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs with identical mutations in symmetry-related positions..- I(M206)H and I(L177)H. The substitution I(L177)H resulted in covalent binding of BChl PA with the L-subunit, as well as in 6-coordination of BChl BB, whereas in RC I(M206)H no such changes of pigment-protein interactions were found. In addition, the yield of RC I(M206)H after its isolation from membranes was significantly lower than the yield of RC I(L177)H. This study shows that replacement of amino acid residues in the M203-M206 positions near BChls PB and BA by symmetry-related residues from the L-subunit near BChls PA and BB leads to further decrease in RC amount in the membranes associated obviously with poor assemb	2016	8	24	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Histidine; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Vasilieva	L G
26525019		Bioremediation of petroleum hydrocarbon contaminated soil by Rhodobacter sphaeroides biofertilizer and plants.	Bio-augmentation is a promising technique for remediation of polluted soils. This study aimed to evaluate the bio-augmentation effect of Rhodobacter sphaeroides biofertilizer (RBF) on the bioremediation of total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) contaminated soil. A greenhouse pot experiment was conducted over a period of 120 days, three methods for enhancing bio-augmentation were tested on TPH contaminated soils, including single addition RBF, planting, and combining of RBF and three crop species, such as wheat (W), cabbage (C) and spinach (S), respectively. The results demonstrated that the best removal of TPH from contaminated soil in the RBF bio-augmentation rhizosphere soils was found to be 46.2%, 65.4%, 67.5% for W+RBF, C+RBF, S+RBF rhizosphere soils respectively. RBF supply impacted on the microbial community diversity (phospholipid fatty acids, PLFA) and the activity of soil enzymes, such as dehydrogenase (DH), alkaline phosphatase (AP) and urease (UR). There were significant differ	2015	12	22	Pak J Pharm Sci	Pakistan journal of pharmaceutical sciences	Biodegradation, Environmental; Brassica; Fatty Acids; Fertilizers; Hydrocarbons; Petroleum; Phospholipids; Plants; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil Pollutants; Spinacia oleracea; Triticum	Jiao	Haihua
26519773	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.10.014	Development and dynamics of the photosynthetic apparatus in purple phototrophic bacteria.	The purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides provides a useful model system for studies of the assembly and dynamics of bacterial photosynthetic membranes. For the nascent developing membrane, proteomic analyses showed an ~2-fold enrichment in general membrane assembly factors, compared to chromatophores. When the protonophore carbonyl-cyanide m-chlorophenyl-hydrazone (CCCP) was added to an ICM inducing culture, an ~2-fold elevation in spectral counts vs. the control was seen for the SecA translocation ATPase, the preprotein translocase SecY, SecD and SecF insertion components, and chaperonins DnaJ and DnaK, which act early in the assembly process. It is suggested that these factors accumulated with their nascent polypeptides, as putative assembly intermediates in a functionally arrested state. Since in Synechocystis PCC 6803, a link has been established between Chl delivery involving the high-light HilD protein and the SecY/YidC-requiring cotranslational insertion of nascent polypepti	2016	4	26	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Atomic force microscopy; Bacterial photosynthesis; Light-harvesting; Membrane assembly; Membrane dynamics; Reaction center; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Niederman	Robert A
26517602	10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b01851	Regulation of the primary quinone binding conformation by the H subunit in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Unlike photosystem II (PSII) in higher plants, bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers (bRCs) from Proteobacteria have an additional peripheral membrane subunit "H". The H subunit is necessary for photosynthetic growth, but can be removed chemically in vitro. The remaining LM dimer retains its activity to perform light-induced charge separation. Here we investigate the influence of the H subunit on interactions between the primary semiquinone and the protein matrix, using a combination of site-specific isotope labeling, pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The data reveal substantially weaker binding interactions between the primary semiquinone and the LM dimer than observed for the intact bRC; the amount of electron spin transferred to the nitrogen hydrogen bond donors is significantly reduced, the methoxy groups are more free to rotate, and the spectra indicate a heterogeneous mixture of bound semiquinone states. These resu	2016	6	30	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	DFT; hyperfine coupling; isotope labeling; pulsed EPR; site-directed mutagenesis; ubisemiquinone; Benzoquinones; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sun	Chang
26516277	10.1126/science.aab2595	Response to Comment on "Crystal structures of translocator protein (TSPO) and mutant mimic of a human polymorphism".	Wang comments that the diffraction data for the structure of the A139T mutant of translocator protein TSPO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides should be used to 1.65 instead of 1.8 angstroms and that the density interpreted as porphyrin and monoolein is better fitted as polyethylene glycol. Although different practices of data processing exist, in this case they do not substantially influence the final map. Additional data are presented supporting the fit of a porphyrin and monooleins. 	2015	11	2	Science	Science (New York, N.Y.)	Bacterial Proteins; Humans; Membrane Transport Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Li	Fei
26516276	10.1126/science.aab1432	Comment on "Crystal structures of translocator protein (TSPO) and mutant mimic of a human polymorphism".	Li et al. (Reports, 30 January, p. 555) reported on a crystal structure for a translocator protein (TSPO) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in which some of the electron density is modeled as a porphyrin. The analysis of the x-ray data discussed here suggests that this assignment is incorrect. 	2015	11	2	Science	Science (New York, N.Y.)	Bacterial Proteins; Humans; Membrane Transport Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	Jimin
26513270	10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b09023	Thermal Adaptability of the Light-Harvesting Complex 2 from Thermochromatium tepidum: Temperature-Dependent Excitation Transfer Dynamics.	The photosynthetic purple bacterium Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum is a thermophile that grows at an optimal temperature of ...50 ..C. We have investigated, by means of steady-state and time-resolved optical spectroscopies, the effects of temperature on the near-infrared light absorption and the excitation energy transfer (EET) dynamics of its light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2), for which the mesophilic counterpart of Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides 2.4.1 (...30 ..C) was examined in comparison. In a limited range around the physiological temperature (10-55 ..C), the B800-to-B850 EET process of the Tch. tepidum LH2, but not the Rba. sphaeroides LH2, was found to be characteristically temperature-dependent, mainly because of a temperature-tunable spectral overlap. At 55 ..C, the LH2 complex from Tch. tepidum maintained efficient near-infrared light harvesting and B800-to-B850 EET dynamics, whereas this EET process was disrupted in the case of Rba. sphaeroides 2.4.1 owing to the structural 	2016	3	16	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	NA	Shi	Ying
26485677	10.1371/journal.pone.0140918	HMGB1 Contributes to the Expression of P-Glycoprotein in Mouse Epileptic Brain through Toll-Like Receptor 4 and Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products.	The objective of the present study was to investigate the role of high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) in the seizure-induced P-glycoprotein (P-gp) overexpression and the underlying mechanism. Kainic acid (KA)-induced mouse seizure model was used for in vivo experiments. Male C57BL/6 mice were divided into four groups: normal saline control (NS) group, KA-induced epileptic seizure (EP) group, and EP group pretreated with HMGB1 (EP+HMGB1 group) or BoxA (HMGB1 antagonist, EP+BoxA group). Compared to the NS group, increased levels of HMGB1 and P-gp in the brain were observed in the EP group. Injection of HMGB1 before the induction of KA further increased the expression of P-gp while pre-treatment with BoxA abolished this up-regulation. Next, the regulatory role of HMGB1 and its potential involved signal pathways were investigated in mouse microvascular endothelial bEnd.3 cells in vitro. Cells were treated with HMGB1, HMGB1 plus lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS) [toll-l	2016	6	7	PLoS One	PloS one	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Subfamily B, Member 1; Animals; Brain; Disease Models, Animal; Epilepsy; HMGB1 Protein; Kainic Acid; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Chen	Yan
26477565	10.1016/j.bbamcr.2015.10.009	Evolution and structural organization of the mitochondrial contact site (MICOS) complex and the mitochondrial intermembrane space bridging (MIB) complex.	We have analyzed the distribution of mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS) complex proteins and mitochondrial intermembrane space bridging complex (MIB) proteins over (sub)complexes and over species. The MICOS proteins are associated with the formation and maintenance of mitochondrial cristae. Indeed, the presence of MICOS genes in genomes correlates well with the presence of cristae: all cristae containing species have at least one MICOS gene and cristae-less species have none. Mic10 is the most widespread MICOS gene, while Mic60 appears be the oldest one, as it originates in the ancestors of mitochondria, the proteobacteria. In proteobacteria the gene occurs in clusters with genes involved in heme synthesis while the protein has been observed in intracellular membranes of the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In contrast, Mic23 and Mic27 appear to be the youngest MICOS proteins, as they only occur in opisthokonts. The remaining MICOS proteins, M	2016	4	26	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	C19orf70; Complexome profiling; HemX; MIB; MICOS; Metaxin 3; Cell Line, Tumor; Evolution, Molecular; Humans; Mitochondrial Proteins; Multiprotein Complexes	Huynen	Martijn A
26457222	10.1155/2015/361326	Lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides Attenuates Microglia-Mediated Inflammation and Phagocytosis and Directs Regulatory T Cell Response.	Microglia activation and neuroinflammation are key events during the progression of neurodegenerative disorders. Microglia exhibits toll-like receptors (TLRs), with predominant expression of TLR4, inducing aberrant neuroinflammation and exacerbated neurotoxicity. Studies suggest that microglia initiate infiltration of T cells into the brain that critically influence disease conditions. We report that LPS-Rs, through TLR4 antagonism, significantly inhibit TLR4 mediated inflammatory molecules like IL-1.., IL-6, TNF-.., COX-2, iNOS, and NO. LPS-Rs regulates JNK/p38 MAPKs and p65-NF-..B signaling pathways, which we report as indispensible for LPS induced neuroinflammation. LPS-Rs mitigates microglial phagocytic activity and we are first to report regulatory role of LPS-Rs which blocked microglia mediated inflammation and apoptotic cell death. LPS-Rs significantly inhibits expression of costimulatory molecules CD80, CD86, and CD40. Chemokine receptor, CCR5, and T cell recruitment chemokines	2015	10	12	Int J Inflam	International journal of inflammation	NA	Gaikwad	Sagar
26424893	10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1956-15.2015	The Cancer Chemotherapeutic Paclitaxel Increases Human and Rodent Sensory Neuron Responses to TRPV1 by Activation of TLR4.	Peripheral neuropathy is dose limiting in paclitaxel cancer chemotherapy and can result in both acute pain during treatment and chronic persistent pain in cancer survivors. The hypothesis tested was that paclitaxel produces these adverse effects at least in part by sensitizing transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1) through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling. The data show that paclitaxel-induced behavioral hypersensitivity is prevented and reversed by spinal administration of a TRPV1 antagonist. The number of TRPV1(+) neurons is increased in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in paclitaxel-treated rats and is colocalized with TLR4 in rat and human DRG neurons. Cotreatment of rats with lipopolysaccharide from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS), a TLR4 inhibitor, prevents the increase in numbers of TRPV1(+) neurons by paclitaxel treatment. Perfusion of paclitaxel or the archetypal TLR4 agonist LPS activated both rat DRG and spinal neurons direct	2015	12	28	J Neurosci	The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience	DRG; cancer; dorsal horn; neuropathy; Animals; Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic; Calcium; Excitatory Postsynaptic Potentials; Ganglia, Spinal; HEK293 Cells; Humans; Hyperalgesia; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Paclitaxel; Pain Measurement; Patch-Clamp Techniques; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Sensory Receptor Cells; Signal Transduction; Spinal Cord; TRPV Cation Channels; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Yan
26419219	10.1111/mmi.13235	PucC and LhaA direct efficient assembly of the light-harvesting complexes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The mature architecture of the photosynthetic membrane of the purple phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been characterised to a level where an atomic-level membrane model is available, but the roles of the putative assembly proteins LhaA and PucC in establishing this architecture are unknown. Here we investigate the assembly of light-harvesting LH2 and reaction centre-light-harvesting1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) photosystem complexes using spectroscopy, pull-downs, native gel electrophoresis, quantitative mass spectrometry and fluorescence lifetime microscopy to characterise a series of lhaA and pucC mutants. LhaA and PucC are important for specific assembly of LH1 or LH2 complexes, respectively, but they are not essential; the few LH1 subunits found in ..lhaA mutants assemble to form normal RC-LH1-PufX core complexes showing that, once initiated, LH1 assembly round the RC is cooperative and proceeds to completion. LhaA and PucC form oligomers at sites of initiation of membrane invaginatio	2016	10	20	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mothersole	David J
26395073	10.1186/s12934-015-0343-0	Activation of formate hydrogen-lyase via expression of uptake [NiFe]-hydrogenase in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3).	Several recent studies have reported successful hydrogen (H2) production achieved via recombinant expression of uptake [NiFe]-hydrogenases from Hydrogenovibrio marinus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Escherichia coli (hydrogenase-1) in E. coli BL21(DE3), a strain that lacks H2-evolving activity. However, there are some unclear points that do not support the conclusion that the recombinant hydrogenases are responsible for the in vivo H2 production. Unlike wild-type BL21(DE3), the recombinant BL21(DE3) strains possessed formate hydrogen-lyase (FHL) activities. Through experiments using fdhF (formate dehydrogenase-H) or hycE (hydrogenase-3) mutants, it was shown that H2 production was almost exclusively dependent on FHL. Upon expression of hydrogenase, extracellular formate concentration was changed even in the mutant strains lacking FHL, indicating that formate metabolism other than FHL was also affected. The two subunits of H. marinus uptake [NiFe]-hydrogenase could activate FHL independe	2016	9	1	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Escherichia coli; Formate Dehydrogenases; Hydrogenase; Multienzyme Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction	Jo	Byung Hoon
26394473		[Estimation of the Index Value of Dielectric Permeability inside the Membranes of Purple Bacteria].	The joint application of the precise X-ray data for isolated bacteriochlorophyll complexes of reaction centers and the fundamental formulae for the energy of interaction between two equal dipoles enabled us to suggest a new methodical approach for determination of the values of the index of dielectric permeability in the micro volume enclosing special pairs in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers. The most probable value for this parameter was thus determined within 1.66-1.76. This approach was generalized for the inner layer of the membranes of purple bacteria and yielded the index value about 1.70-1.85. It is argued that this range of dielectric permeability is adequate for bacterial and plant membranes as well. Low magnitude of this parameter contributes to higher efficiency of energy migration from vast light-harvesting chlorophyll "antenna" to the energy converting reaction centers and hence to higher efficiency of the whole photosynthesis.	2015	10	6	Biofizika	Biofizika	Bacteriochlorophylls; Cell Fractionation; Cell Membrane; Electric Impedance; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Permeability; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Borisov	A Y
26392384	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.09.016	Metabolic engineering of the Stevia rebaudiana ent-kaurene biosynthetic pathway in recombinant Escherichia coli.	The ent-kaurene is a dedicated precursor pool and is responsible for synthesizing natural sweeteners such as steviol glycosides. In this study, to produce ent-kaurene in Escherichia coli, we modularly constructed and expressed two ent-kaurene genes encoding ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase (CPPS) and ent-kaurene synthase (KS) from Stevia rebaudiana known as a typical plant producing steviol glycoside. The CPPS and KS from S. rebaudiana were functionally expressed in a heterologous host E. coli. Furthermore, in order to enhance ent-kaurene production in E. coli, six geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthases (GGPPS) from various microorganisms and eight strains of E. coli as host were compared by measuring ent-kaurene production. The highest ent-kaurene production of approximately 41.1mg/L was demonstrated in E. coli strain MG1655 co-expressing synthetic CPPS-KS module and GGPPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The ent-kaurene production was further increased up to 179.6 mg/L by overexpression o	2016	8	29	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Diterpene; Metabolic engineering; Stevia rebaudiana; ent-Kaurene; Diterpenes, Kaurane; Escherichia coli; Fermentation; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Plant Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Stevia	Kong	Min Kyung
26373989	10.1063/1.4930539	Communication: Coherences observed in vivo in photosynthetic bacteria using two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy.	Energy transfer through large disordered antenna networks in photosynthetic organisms can occur with a quantum efficiency of nearly 100%. This energy transfer is facilitated by the electronic structure of the photosynthetic antennae as well as interactions between electronic states and the surrounding environment. Coherences in time-domain spectroscopy provide a fine probe of how a system interacts with its surroundings. In two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy, coherences can appear on both the ground and excited state surfaces revealing detailed information regarding electronic structure, system-bath coupling, energy transfer, and energetic coupling in complex chemical systems. Numerous studies have revealed coherences in isolated photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes, but these coherences have not been observed in vivo due to the small amplitude of these signals and the intense scatter from whole cells. Here, we present data acquired using ultrafast video-acquisition gradient-a	2016	6	13	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Bacterial Proteins; Deuterium Oxide; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Pyrazoles; Pyrimidines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature; Time Factors; Video Recording	Dahlberg	Peter D
26371061	10.1007/s00203-015-1150-z	Effect of magnesium ion on crt gene expression in improving carotenoid yield of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	This study aimed at increasing carotenoid yield of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in wastewater treatment by adding magnesium ion (Mg(2+)). Results showed that Mg(2+) could improve R. sphaeroides biomass and carotenoid yield effectively. The highest carotenoid yield of 4.83 .. 0.14 mg/g biomass and biomass production of 3900 .. 180 mg/L were achieved at optimal Mg(2+) concentration of 15 mmol/L. Mechanism analysis revealed that Mg(2+) could promote carotenoid production by regulating the expressions of crt genes. Up-regulation of crtBDA genes improved carotenoid biosynthesis of R. sphaeroides.	2016	2	4	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Carotenoid; Gene expression; Magnesium ion; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Up-regulation; Biomass; Carotenoids; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Magnesium; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Waste Water	Liu	Shuli
26362178	10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.09.032	Presence of an amino acid residue at position 619 required for the function of YidC in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	YidC, the bacterial homologous protein of Oxa1 and Alb3, could insert membrane proteins into the membrane. Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a kind of photobacteria with abundant intracytoplasmic membranes. In this study, the functions of R...sphaeroides YidC and its C-terminus were investigated in the Escherichia coli YidC gene depletion strain FTL10. The results showed that RS_YidC could complement the growth of the strain FTL10, but the RS_YidC last 5 residues (619-623, KKRKP) deletion mutant could not. Interestingly, the site-directed RS_YidC mutants of any one or all of these 5 residues were still active. The deletion mutant of the last 4 residues and even the last 4 residues deletion mutant with substitution of the Ala or Glu for Lys619 still had sufficient activity to complement the growth of the strain FTL10. These results indicated that the length of the C-terminus of Rs_YidC is more important for its function than the amino acid composition or the charges of it, and the presence of 	2016	1	8	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Amino acid residue 619; C-terminus; Last 5 residues; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; YidC; Amino Acids; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Membrane Transport Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Xu	Dongqing
26343161	10.1016/j.bbamem.2015.09.006	Ionic liquids effects on the permeability of photosynthetic membranes probed by the electrochromic shift of endogenous carotenoids.	Ionic liquids (ILs) are promising materials exploited as solvents and media in many innovative applications, some already used at the industrial scale. The chemical structure and physicochemical properties of ILs can differ significantly according to the specific applications for which they have been synthesized. As a consequence, their interaction with biological entities and toxicity can vary substantially. To select highly effective and minimally harmful ILs, these properties need to be investigated. Here we use the so called chromatophores--protein-phospholipid membrane vesicles obtained from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides--to assess the effects of imidazolinium and pyrrolidinium ILs, with chloride or dicyanamide as counter anions, on the ionic permeability of a native biological membrane. The extent and modalities by which these ILs affect the ionic conductivity can be studied in chromatophores by analyzing the electrochromic response of endogenous carotenoid	2016	5	19	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Carotenoid shift; Chromatophores; Ionic liquids; Phospholipidic membranes; Photosynthesis; Algorithms; Bacterial Chromatophores; Carotenoids; Chlorides; Imidazolines; Ionic Liquids; Kinetics; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Permeability; Pyrrolidines; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Malferrari	Marco
26337489	10.1186/s12934-015-0324-3	Novel properties of photofermentative biohydrogen production by purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides: effects of protonophores and inhibitors of responsible enzymes.	Biohydrogen (H2) production by purple bacteria during photofermentation is a very promising way among biological H2 production methods. The effects of protonophores, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP), and inhibitors of enzymes, involved in H2 metabolism, metronidazole (Met), diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), and dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) on H2 production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides MDC6522 isolated from Jermuk mineral springs in Armenia have been investigated in both nitrogen-limited and nitrogen-excess conditions. With the increase of inhibitors concentrations H2 yield gradually decreased. The complete inhibition of H2 production was observed in the presence of DPI and CCCP. DPI's solvent-DMSO in low concentration did not significantly affect H2 yield. N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCD)-inhibited the FOF1-ATPase activity of bacterial membrane vesicles was analyzed in the presence of inhibitors. Low concentrations of DPI and DMSO did not affect ATPase a	2016	5	24	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Carbon; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gabrielyan	Lilit
26335184	10.1186/s12859-015-0705-y	WiseScaffolder: an algorithm for the semi-automatic scaffolding of Next Generation Sequencing data.	The sequencing depth provided by high-throughput sequencing technologies has allowed a rise in the number of de novo sequenced genomes that could potentially be closed without further sequencing. However, genome scaffolding and closure require costly human supervision that often results in genomes being published as drafts. A number of automatic scaffolders were recently released, which improved the global quality of genomes published in the last few years. Yet, none of them reach the efficiency of manual scaffolding. Here, we present an innovative semi-automatic scaffolder that additionally helps with chimerae resolution and generates valuable contig maps and outputs for manual improvement of the automatic scaffolding. This software was tested on the newly sequenced marine cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. WH8103 as well as two reference datasets used in previous studies, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Homo sapiens chromosome 14 (http://gage.cbcb.umd.edu/). The quality of resulting scaffo	2016	3	3	BMC Bioinformatics	BMC bioinformatics	Chromosome Mapping; Genome; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Humans; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Synechococcus	Farrant	Gregory K
26306848	10.1099/mic.0.000160	Phosphoribulokinase mediates nitrogenase-induced carbon dioxide fixation gene repression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In many organisms there is a balance between carbon and nitrogen metabolism. These observations extend to the nitrogen-fixing, nonsulfur purple bacteria, which have the classic family of P(II) regulators that coordinate signals of carbon and nitrogen status to regulate nitrogen metabolism. Curiously, these organisms also possess a reverse mechanism to regulate carbon metabolism based on cellular nitrogen status. In this work, studies in Rhodobacter sphaeroides firmly established that the activity of the enzyme that catalyses nitrogen fixation, nitrogenase, induces a signal that leads to repression of genes encoding enzymes of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) CO2 fixation pathway. Additionally, genetic and metabolomic experiments revealed that NADH-activated phosphoribulokinase is an intermediate in the signalling pathway. Thus, nitrogenase activity appears to be linked to cbb gene repression through phosphoribulokinase. 	2016	10	7	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Carbon Dioxide; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Metabolome; Nitrogen; Nitrogenase; Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Farmer	Ryan M
26296612	10.1007/s10529-015-1903-4	Purification and functional characterization of thermostable 5-aminolevulinic acid synthases.	As 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS), the key enzyme for 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) synthesis, is unstable, we have sought to find thermostable ALASs from thermophilic organisms. Three ALASs from thermophiles Geobacillus thermoglucosidasius (GT-ALAS), Laceyella sacchari (LS-ALAS) and Pseudomonas alcaliphila (PA-ALAS) were purified and characterized. All enzymes were more stable than two previously studied ALASs from Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. There was almost no activity change after 60..h at 37....C for the three thermostable enzymes. This contrasts with the other two enzymes which lost over 90..% activities in just 1..h. Furthermore, the specific activity of LS-ALAS (7.8..U..mg(-1)) was also higher than any previously studied ALASs. Thermostable ALASs were found in thermophilic organisms and this paves the way for developing cell free processes for enzymatic production of ALA from bulk chemicals succinate and glycine.	2016	6	23	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	5-Aminolevulinic acid; 5-Aminolevulinic acid synthase; Enzyme purification; Thermostability; 5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Hot Temperature; Recombinant Proteins	Meng	Qinglong
26292635	10.1039/c5cp03089g	Energy dissipative photoprotective mechanism of carotenoid spheroidene from the photoreaction center of purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Carotenoid spheroidene (SPO) functions for photoprotection in the photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) and effectively dissipates its triplet excitation energy. Sensitized cis-to-trans isomerization was proposed as a possible mechanism for a singlet-triplet energy crossing for the 15,15'-cis-SPO; however, it has been questioned recently. To understand the dissipative photoprotective mechanism of this important SPO and to overcome the existing controversies on this issue, we carried out a theoretical investigation using density functional theory on the possible triplet energy relaxation mechanism through the cis-to-trans isomerization. Together with the earlier experimental observations, the possible mechanism was discussed for the triplet energy relaxation of the 15,15'-cis-SPO. The result shows that complete cis-to-trans isomerization is not necessary. Twisting the C15-C15' bond leads to singlet-triplet energy crossing at ..(14,15,15',14') = 77.. with an energy 32.5 kJ mol(-1) (7.7 k	2015	12	16	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Carotenoids; Molecular Conformation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stereoisomerism; Thermodynamics	Arulmozhiraja	Sundaram
26283770	10.1128/JB.00420-15	A Cardiolipin-Deficient Mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Has an Altered Cell Shape and Is Impaired in Biofilm Formation.	Cell shape has been suggested to play an important role in the regulation of bacterial attachment to surfaces and the formation of communities associated with surfaces. We found that a cardiolipin synthase (..cls) mutant of the rod-shaped bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides--in which synthesis of the anionic, highly curved phospholipid cardiolipin (CL) is reduced by 90%--produces ellipsoid-shaped cells that are impaired in biofilm formation. Reducing the concentration of CL did not cause significant defects in R. sphaeroides cell growth, swimming motility, lipopolysaccharide and exopolysaccharide production, surface adhesion protein expression, and membrane permeability. Complementation of the CL-deficient mutant by ectopically expressing CL synthase restored cells to their rod shape and increased biofilm formation. Treating R. sphaeroides cells with a low concentration (10 ..g/ml) of the small-molecule MreB inhibitor S-(3,4-dichlorobenzyl)isothiourea produced ellipsoid-shaped cells that	2016	1	8	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Biofilms; Cardiolipins; Membrane Proteins; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transferases (Other Substituted Phosphate Groups)	Lin	Ti-Yu
26277714	10.1016/j.colsurfb.2015.07.074	Recognition of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by microcontact-imprinted poly(ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol).	The immobilization of cells or microorganisms is important for bioseparations, in bioreactors producing cellular metabolites, and as receptors for biosensing. Cell-imprinted polymers (CIPs) have been shown to have cavities with complementary shapes and also high affinities for the template cells or microorganisms. However, the effects of binding to CIPs on gene expression are only beginning to be studied. In this work, the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides was employed as a model for the imprinting of microorganisms. R. sphaeroides was first adsorbed on a glass slide as the stamp and then microcontact-imprinted onto poly(ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol), EVAL. The surfaces of the R. sphaeroides-imprinted (RsIPs) and non-imprinted (NIPs) EVAL thin films were examined by Raman spectrometry and scanning electron microscopy. The expression of the nitrogenase (nitrogen fixation, nifH) gene of R. sphaeroides adsorbed on both the RsIPs and NIPs EVAL thin films was also measured by the quantit	2016	10	5	Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces	Colloids and surfaces. B, Biointerfaces	Gene expression; Microcontact-imprinting; Nitrogenase; Poly(ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Adsorption; Biosensing Techniques; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Microcomputers; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Polymers; Polyvinyls; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Surface Properties	Lee	Mei-Hwa
26263690		[Poly- .. -Hydroxybutyrate Accumulation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides Phase Variants].	The Rand M variants of a purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2R grown on a medium with acetate accumulate poly- ..-hydroxybutyrate (PHB). Accumulation of this polymer occurs in the cells grown either anaerobically on the light or aerobically in the dark. On the medium with C/N imbalance (C/N = 4), PHB content during the stationary growth phase under aerobic conditions in the dark was 40 and 70% of the dry biomass of the R and M variant, respectively. The Rba. sphaeroides M variant is therefore a promising culture for large-scale PHB production. Investigation of activity of the TCA cycle enzymes revealed that decreased activity of citrate synthase, the key enzyme for acetate involvement in the reactions of the tricarboxylic acids cycle, was primarily responsible for enhanced PHB synthesis by Rba. sphaeroides. Moreover, the Rba. sphaeroides M variant grown under aerobic conditions in the dark exhibited considerably lower activity of NADH oxidase, which participates in	2015	8	25	Mikrobiologiia	Mikrobiologiia	Acetates; Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Citrate (si)-Synthase; Citric Acid Cycle; Darkness; Hydroxybutyrates; Light; Multienzyme Complexes; NADH, NADPH Oxidoreductases; Oxidation-Reduction; Polyesters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Krasil'nikova	E N
26260894	10.1186/s13568-015-0133-4	Evaluation of clinical trial of atopic dermatitis by a topical cream containing the extracts from photosynthetic bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been studied as a functional food source; however, in this clinical study, we report for the first time its use as a treatment for atopic dermatitis. Topical cream containing 10% (v/v) extract was demonstrated to have the ability to reduce skin moisture content loss and pruritus by 27.82% in clinical trials for atopic dermatitis compared with controls. In particular, there were statistically significant differences in the pH and temperature changes of the skin, skin firmness and general skin appearance. Changes in the skin pH were measured as 4.83, and there was a 3.37% change in temperature after 4..weeks of treatment. It was also found that there were great differences in wrinkle states according to the grading scale of patients before and after treatment with topical cream. Therefore, these results strongly suggest that extracts from photosynthetic bacteria can be employed to soothe atopic irritation as a new cosmetic bioresour	2015	8	11	AMB Express	AMB Express	NA	Kim	Nam Young
26258685	10.1021/acs.biochem.5b00311	In Vitro Enzymatic Activities of Bacteriochlorophyll a Synthase Derived from the Green Sulfur Photosynthetic Bacterium Chlorobaculum tepidum.	The activity of an enzyme encoded by the CT1610 gene in the green sulfur photosynthetic bacterium Chlorobaculum tepidum, which was annotated as bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a synthase, BchG (denoted as tepBchG), was examined in vitro using the lysates of Escherichia coli containing the heterologously expressed enzyme. BChl a possessing a geranylgeranyl group at the 17-propionate residue (BChl aGG) was produced from bacteriochlorophyllide (BChlide) a and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate in the presence of tepBchG. Surprisingly, tepBchG catalyzed the formation of BChl a bearing a farnesyl group (BChl aF) as in the enzymatic production of BChl aGG, indicating loose recognition of isoprenoid pyrophosphates in tepBchG. In contrast to such loose recognition of isoprenoid substrates, BChlide c and chlorophyllide a gave no esterifying product upon being incubated with geranylgeranyl or farnesyl pyrophosphate in the presence of tepBchG. These results confirm that tepBchG undoubtedly acts as the BChl 	2015	11	20	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Carbon-Oxygen Ligases; Chlorobi; Genes, Bacterial; Molecular Structure; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity; Substrate Specificity	Saga	Yoshitaka
26235649	10.1002/mbo3.279	IscR of Rhodobacter sphaeroides functions as repressor of genes for iron-sulfur metabolism and represents a new type of iron-sulfur-binding protein.	IscR proteins are known as transcriptional regulators for Fe-S biogenesis. In the facultatively phototrophic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides IscR is the product of the first gene in the isc-suf operon. A major role of IscR in R. sphaeroides iron-dependent regulation was suggested in a bioinformatic study (Rodionov et al., PLoS Comput Biol 2:e163, 2006), which predicted a binding site in the upstream regions of several iron uptake genes, named Iron-Rhodo-box. Most known IscR proteins have Fe-S clusters featuring (Cys)3 (His)1 ligation. However, IscR proteins from Rhodobacteraceae harbor only a single-Cys residue and it was considered unlikely that they can ligate an Fe-S cluster. In this study, the role of R. sphaeroides IscR as transcriptional regulator and sensor of the Fe-S cluster status of the cell was analyzed. A mutant lacking IscR is more impaired in growth under iron limitation than the wild-type and exhibits significantly increased ROS levels in iron-replete and iron-deplet	2016	7	27	Microbiologyopen	MicrobiologyOpen	Fe-S proteins; Iron-Rhodo-box; IscR; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; iron; iron-sulfur cluster; Culture Media; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Iron; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Protein Binding; Reactive Oxygen Species; Regulon; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Remes	Bernhard
26232748	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2015.07.017	Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria monitor environmental stresses.	Heavy metal ion pollution and oxygen deficiency are major environmental risks for microorganisms in aqueous habitat. The potential of purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria for biomonitoring and bioremediation was assessed by investigating the photosynthetic capacity in heavy metal contaminated environments. Cultures of bacterial strains Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodospirillum rubrum and Rubrivivax gelatinosus were treated with heavy metal ions in micromolar (Hg(2+)), submillimolar (Cr(6+)) and millimolar (Pb(2+)) concentration ranges. Functional assays (flash-induced absorption changes and bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence induction) and electron micrographs were taken to specify the harmful effects of pollution and to correlate to morphological changes of the membrane. The bacterial strains and functional tests showed differentiated responses to environmental stresses, revealing that diverse mechanisms of tolerance and/or resistance are involved. The microorganisms were vulnerable 	2017	3	3	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Anaerobism; Biomonitoring; Bioremediation; Fluorescence induction; Heavy metal toxicity; Purple bacteria; Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chromium; Ecotoxicology; Environmental Monitoring; Fluorescence; Lead; Mercury; Metals, Heavy; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Rhodospirillum rubrum; Species Specificity; Stress, Physiological; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Kis	Mariann
26231905	10.1016/j.aca.2015.05.028	Occurrence of oleic and 18:1 methyl-branched acyl chains in lipids of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	The fatty acids (FAs) composition of lipids extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 was investigated by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of the corresponding FA methyl esters (FAMEs), obtained through trans-esterification of the original lipid species. A GC stationary phase based on a highly polar ionic liquid (IL) was selected, aimed to enhance the separation of isomeric FAMEs with particular emphasis on positional and geometrical isomers of monounsaturated 16:1 and 18:1 fatty acyl chains. The occurrence of 18:1 cis-..(9) (oleic) acid, a positional isomer of the well-known and most predominant 18:1 cis-..(11) (cis-vaccenic) acid, has been demonstrated here for the first time. Furthermore a methyl branched 18:1 FA was also identified and its structure tentatively assigned as 11-methyl-..(12)-octadecenoic acid (most likely as trans isomer). The unprecedented observation about 18:1 cis-..(9) FA occurrence in R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 is, even indirectly, supported by	2016	4	26	Anal Chim Acta	Analytica chimica acta	Bacterial biosynthetic pathways; Fatty acids; Gas chromatography...mass spectrometry; Ionic liquid capillary column; Methyl branched fatty acids; R. sphaeroides; Fatty Acids; Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry; Ionic Liquids; Methylation; Oleic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Granafei	Sara
26210154	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.07.010	Electrostatics of the photosynthetic bacterial reaction center. Protonation of Glu L 212 and Asp L 213 - A new method of calculation.	Continuum electrostatic calculation of the transfer energies of anions from water into aprotic solvents gives the figures erroneous by order of magnitude. This is due to the hydrogen bond disruption that suggests the necessity to reconsider the traditional approach of the purely electrostatic calculation of the transfer energy from water into protein. In this paper, the method combining the experimental estimates of the transfer energies from water into aprotic solvent and the electrostatic calculation of the transfer energies from aprotic solvent into protein is proposed. Hydrogen bonds between aprotic solvent and solute are taken into account by introducing an imaginary aprotic medium incapable to form hydrogen bonds with the solute. Besides, a new treatment of the heterogeneous intraprotein dielectric permittivity based on the microscopic protein structure and electrometric measurements is elaborated. The method accounts semi-quantitatively for the electrostatic effect of diverse ch	2015	12	17	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bacterial thioredoxin; Dielectric permittivity distribution; Electrostatic calculations; Hydrogen bonds and transfer energies; Ion transfer energies; Photosynthesis; Aspartic Acid; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen Bonding; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Static Electricity	Ptushenko	Vasily V
26202746	10.1007/s11120-015-0174-1	Colin A. Wraight, 1945-2014.	Colin Allen Wraight, a central figure in photosynthetic electron transfer research since the 1970s, died in Urbana, Illinois, on July 10, 2014. Born in London, England, on November 27, 1945, he had only recently retired from his position as a Professor in Biochemistry, Biophysics &amp; Quantitative Biology, and Plant Biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Wraight was known especially for his pioneering studies on electron and proton transfer in the photochemical reaction center, and for his careful quantitation of the remarkable quantum efficiency of this device. 	2016	10	24	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Chemiosmosis; Electron transfer; Proton motive force; Quantum yield of primary photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Two-electron gate; Biophysics; History, 20th Century; History, 21st Century; United Kingdom; United States	Govindjee	Department of Plant Biology, Department of Biochemistry, and Center of Biophysics &amp
26196419	10.1016/j.biortech.2015.07.028	The role of pH control on biohydrogen production by single stage hybrid dark- and photo-fermentation.	The role of pH control on biohydrogen production by co-culture of dark-fermentative Clostridium acetobutylicum and photofermentative Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied. Single stage dark fermentation, photofermentation and hybrid co-culture systems were studied at different values of controlled and uncontrolled pH. Increasing pH during dark fermentation resulted in lower hydrogen production rate (HPR) and longer lag time for both controlled and uncontrolled conditions. However, it only slightly affected cumulative H2 volume. Results have shown that pH control at pH 7.5 increased photofermentative hydrogen production from 0.966 to 2.502 L H2/L(medium) when compared to uncontrolled process. Fixed pH value has proven to be an important control strategy also for the hybrid process and resulted in obtaining balanced co-culture of dark and photofermentative bacteria. Control of pH at 7.0 was found optimum for bacteria cooperation in the co-culture what resulted in obtaining 2.533 L H2/L(med	2016	12	13	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; Combined fermentation; Dark fermentation; Photofermentation; pH control; Biofuels; Clostridium acetobutylicum; Coculture Techniques; Darkness; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Metabolome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zagrodnik	R
26193456	10.1002/jobm.201500178	Selective repression of light harvesting complex 2 formation in Rhodobacter azotoformans by light under semiaerobic conditions.	Photosystem formation in anaerobic anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria (APB) is repressed by oxygen but is de-repressed when oxygen tension decreases. Under semiaerobic conditions, the synthesis of photopigments and pigment protein complexes in Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides are repressed by light. AppA, a blue-light receptor, mediates this regulation. In the present study, it was showed that the synthesis of bacteriochlorophyll, carotenoid, and pigment protein complexes in Rba. azotoformans 134K20 was significantly repressed by oxygen. Oxygen exposure also led to a conversion of spheroidene to spheroidenone. In semiaerobically growing cells, light irradiation resulted in a decrease in the formation of photosystem, and blue light was found to be the most effective light source. Blue light reduced the contents of bacteriochlorophyll and carotenoid slightly, but had negligible effects on light harvesting complex (LH) 1 content, whereas the content of LH2 was significantly decreased indicati	2016	7	15	J Basic Microbiol	Journal of basic microbiology	Light; Light harvesting complex 1; Repression; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yue	Huiying
26192769	10.18388/abp.2015_995	Wheat straw degradation and production of alternative substrates for nitrogenase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cellulose is a major component of plant biomass and could be applied in the production of biofuels, especially bioethanol. An alternative approach is production of a clean fuel - hydrogen from cellulosic biomass. In this paper an innovatory model of cellulosic waste degradation has been proposed to verify the possibility of utilization of cellulose derivatives by purple non-sulfur bacteria. The concept is based on a two-step process of wheat straw conversion by bacteria in order to obtain an organic acid mixture. In the next stage such products are consumed by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the known producer of hydrogen. It has been documented that Cellulomonas uda expresses cellulolytic activity in the presence of wheat straw as an only source of carbon. R. sphaeroides applied in this research can effectively consume organic acids released from straw by C. uda and Lactobacillus rhamnosus and is able to grow in the presence of these substrates. Additionally, an increased nitrogenase activit	2016	7	27	Acta Biochim Pol	Acta biochimica Polonica	Biofuels; Biomass; Carbon; Cellulase; Cellulomonas; Cellulose; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrolysis; Industrial Microbiology; Nitrogenase; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Triticum	Dziga	Dariusz
26170412	10.1128/JB.00402-15	Transcriptional Regulation by the Short-Chain Fatty Acyl Coenzyme A Regulator (ScfR) PccR Controls Propionyl Coenzyme A Assimilation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) assimilation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides proceeds via the methylmalonyl-CoA pathway. The activity of the key enzyme of the pathway, propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC), was upregulated 20-fold during growth with propionate compared to growth with succinate. Because propionyl-CoA is an intermediate in acetyl-CoA assimilation via the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, acetate growth also requires the methylmalonyl-CoA pathway. PCC activities were upregulated 8-fold in extracts of acetate-grown cells compared to extracts of succinate-grown cells. The upregulation of PCC activities during growth with propionate or acetate corresponded to increased expression of the pccB gene, which encodes a subunit of PCC. PccR (RSP_2186) was identified to be a transcriptional regulator required for the upregulation of pccB transcript levels and, consequently, PCC activity: growth substrate-dependent regulation was lost when pccR was inactivated by an in-frame deletion. In the pccR 	2015	12	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Multigene Family; Phylogeny; Protein Subunits; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription, Genetic	Carter	Michael S
26162692	10.1016/j.imbio.2015.06.016	TLR4 antagonist attenuates atherogenesis in LDL receptor-deficient mice with diet-induced type 2 diabetes.	Although a large number of studies have well documented a key role of toll-like receptor (TLR)4 in atherosclerosis, it remains undetermined if TLR4 antagonist attenuates atherogenesis in mouse model for type 2 diabetes. In this study, we induced type 2 diabetes in low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient (LDLR(-/-)) mice by high-fat diet (HFD). At 8 weeks old, 20 mice were fed HFD and 20 mice fed regular chow (RC) for 24 weeks. In the last 10 weeks, half HFD-fed mice and half RC-fed mice were treated with Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipopolysaccharide (Rs-LPS), an established TLR4 antagonist. After the treatment, atherosclerotic lesions in aortas were analyzed. Results showed that the HFD significantly increased bodyweight, glucose, lipids including total cholesterol, triglycerides and free fatty acids, and insulin resistance, indicating that the HFD induced type 2 diabetes in LDLR(-/-) mice. Results also showed that Rs-LPS had no effect on HFD-increased metabolic parameters in both nond	2016	6	2	Immunobiology	Immunobiology	Atherosclerosis; Diabetes; Inflammation; Toll-like receptor 4; Animals; Atherosclerosis; Biomarkers; Blood Glucose; Collagen; Cytokines; Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental; Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2; Diet, High-Fat; Disease Models, Animal; Endothelial Cells; Inflammation Mediators; Interleukin-6; Lipids; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Male; Matrix Metalloproteinase 9; Mice; Mice, Knockout; Monocytes; Plaque, Atherosclerotic; Receptors, LDL; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Lu	Zhongyang
26141874	10.1016/j.jes.2015.01.005	Enhancement of Rhodobacter sphaeroides growth and carotenoid production through biostimulation.	Bacillus thuringiensis/cereus L2 was added as a biostimulant to enhance the biomass accumulation and carotenoid yield of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using wastewater as the culturing medium. Results showed that biostimulation could significantly enhance the R. sphaeroides biomass production and carotenoid yield. The optimal biostimulant proportion was 40 ..L (about 6.4..10(5) CFU). Through the use of biostimulation, chemical oxygen demand removal, R. sphaeroides biomass production, carotenoid concentration, and carotenoid yield were improved by 178%, 67%, 214%, and 70%, respectively. Theoretical analysis revealed that there were two possible reasons for such increases. One was that biostimulation enhanced the R. sphaeroides wastewater treatment efficiency. The other was that biostimulation significantly decreased the peroxidase activity in R. sphaeroides. The results showed that the highest peroxidase activity dropped by 87% and the induction ratio of the RSP_3419 gene was 3.1 with the add	2015	9	29	J Environ Sci (China)	Journal of environmental sciences (China)	Biomass; Biostimulant; Carotenoid yield; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacillus cereus; Bacillus thuringiensis; Bacterial Proteins; Biomass; Carotenoids; Coculture Techniques; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Peroxidases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Liu	Shuli
26139613	10.4014/jmb.1505.05086	Optimization of Influencing Factors on Biomass Accumulation and 5-Aminolevulinic Acid (ALA) Yield in Rhodobacter sphaeroides Wastewater Treatment.	This study aimed to optimize four factors affecting biomass accumulation and 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) yield together with pollutants removal in Rhodobacter sphaeroides wastewater treatment. Results showed that it was feasible to produce biomass and ALA in R. sphaeroides wastewater treatment. Microaerobic, 1,000-3,000 lux, and pH 7.0 were optimal conditions for the highest ALA yield of 4.5 .. 0.5 mg/g-biomass. Under these conditions, COD removal and biomass production rate were 93.3 .. 0.9% and 31.8 .. 0.5 mg/l/h, respectively. In addition, trace elements Fe(2+), Mg(2+), Ni(2+), and Zn(2+) further improved the ALA yield, COD removal, and biomass production rate. Specifically, the highest ALA yield (12.5 .. 0.6 mg/g-biomass) was achieved with Fe(2+) addition. 	2016	8	30	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	5-aminolevulinic acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides;; influencing factors; optimization; wastewater treatment; Aerobiosis; Aminolevulinic Acid; Biological Oxygen Demand Analysis; Biomass; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Metals; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trace Elements; Waste Water; Water Purification	Liu	Shuli
26124240	10.1128/JB.00170-15	Structural Characterization of the Fla2 Flagellum of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a free-living alphaproteobacterium that contains two clusters of functional flagellar genes in its genome: one acquired by horizontal gene transfer (fla1) and one that is endogenous (fla2). We have shown that the Fla2 system is normally quiescent and under certain conditions produces polar flagella, while the Fla1 system is always active and produces a single flagellum at a nonpolar position. In this work we purified and characterized the structure and analyzed the composition of the Fla2 flagellum. The number of polar filaments per cell is 4.6 on average. By comparison with the Fla1 flagellum, the prominent features of the ultra structure of the Fla2 HBB are the absence of an H ring, thick and long hooks, and a smoother zone at the hook-filament junction. The Fla2 helical filaments have a pitch of 2.64 ..m and a diameter of 1.4 ..m, which are smaller than those of the Fla1 filaments. Fla2 filaments undergo polymorphic transitions in vitro and showed two poly	2015	10	27	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Flagellin; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Polymorphism, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	de la Mora	Javier
26110356	10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b04542	Photochemically Induced Dynamic Nuclear Polarization Observed by Solid-State NMR in a Uniformly (13)C-Isotope-Labeled Photosynthetic Reaction Center.	A sample of solubilized and quinone-depleted reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides wild type has been prepared entirely (13)C and (15)N isotope labeled at all positions of the protein as well as of the cofactors. In this sample, the occurrence of the solid-state photo-CIDNP (photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization) effect has been probed by (13)C solid-state magic-angle spinning NMR under illumination. Under continuous illumination, signal intensities are modified by the three-spin mixing (TSM) mechanism. Time-resolved illumination experiments reveal the occurrence of light-induced nuclear polarization on the time scale of hundreds of microseconds, initially dominated by the transient polarization of the singlet branch of the radical-pair mechanism. A first kinetic analysis shows that the lifetime of the polarization from the singlet branch, indicated by the enhanced absorptive intensities of the signals from aliphatic carbons, is signific	2016	5	5	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carbon-13 Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paul	Shubhajit
26065826	10.1016/j.bbi.2015.06.003	MAPK signaling downstream to TLR4 contributes to paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.	Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) has been implicated as a locus for initiation of paclitaxel related chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). This project explores the involvement of the immediate down-stream signal molecules in inducing paclitaxel CIPN. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and nuclear factor-..B (NF..B) were measured in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and the spinal cord over time using Western blot and immunohistochemistry in a rat model of paclitaxel CIPN. The effects of MAPK inhibitors in preventing and reversing behavioral signs of CIPN were also measured (group sizes 4-9). Extracellular signal related kinase (ERK1/2) and P38 but not c-Jun N terminal kinase (JNK) or PI3K-Akt signaling expression was increased in DRG. Phospho-ERK1/2 staining was co-localized to small CGRP-positive DRG neurons in cell profiles surrounding large DRG neurons consistent with satellite glial cells. The expression of phospho-P38 was co-localized to small IB4-positive and CGRP-positiv	2016	6	7	Brain Behav Immun	Brain, behavior, and immunity	Chemotherapy; Dorsal root ganglion; ERK1/2; NF..B; P38; Spinal dorsal horn; Animals; Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic; Ganglia, Spinal; MAP Kinase Signaling System; Male; Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases; NF-kappa B; Neurons; Paclitaxel; Peripheral Nervous System Diseases; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Yan
26063624	10.1007/s10529-015-1884-3	Identification and spectroscopic characterization of neurosporene.	Neurosporene is a carotene and an intermediate in the synthesis of lycopene from phytoene. Its content in carotenogenic organisms is very low; hence, the complete assignments of its spectroscopic data, including NMR, are insufficient. A purple bacterium of Rhodobacter sphaeroides G1C mutant had only one carotenoid. This carotenoid was extracted and purified using silica gel, DEAE-Toyopearl and C18-HPLC columns. It was identified using its absorption spectra, mass spectra, and (1)H- and (13)C-NMR spectra, including two-dimensional spectral analyses. The major carotenoid in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides G1C mutant was identified as neurosporene (7,8-dihydro-..,..-carotene) using spectroscopic measurements, including complete assignments of its (1)H- and (13)C-NMR spectral data.	2016	6	7	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Carotene; Carotenoid; LC-MS; NMR; Neurosporene; Carotenoids; Chromatography, Liquid; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Mass Spectrometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Takaichi	Shinichi
26062342		[Production of coenzyme Q10 by metabolically engineered Escherichia coli].	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a lipophilic antioxidant that improves human immunity, delays senility and enhances the vitality of the human body and has wide applications in pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. Microbial fermentation is a sustainable way to produce CoQ10, and attracts increased interest. In this work, the native CoQ8 synthetic pathway of Escherichia coli was replaced by the CoQ10 synthetic pathway through integrating decaprenyl diphosphate synthase gene (dps) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides into chromosome of E. coli ATCC 8739, followed by deletion of the native octaprenyl diphosphate synthase gene (ispB). The resulting strain GD-14 produced 0.68 mg/L CoQ10 with a yield of 0.54 mg/g DCW. Modulation of dxs and idi genes of the MEP pathway and ubiCA genes in combination led to 2.46-fold increase of CoQ10 production (from 0.54 to 1.87 mg/g DCW). Recruiting glucose facilitator protein of Zymomonas mobilis to replace the native phosphoenolpyruvate: carbohydrate phosphotransferase	2015	7	17	Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao	Sheng wu gong cheng xue bao = Chinese journal of biotechnology	Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Bacterial Proteins; Batch Cell Culture Techniques; Escherichia coli; Fermentation; Gene Deletion; Industrial Microbiology; Metabolic Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone; Zymomonas	Dai	Guanping
26055662	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.06.002	Effects of the protonophore carbonyl-cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone on intracytoplasmic membrane assembly in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The effect of carbonyl-cyanide m-chlorophenyl-hydrazone (CCCP) on intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) assembly was examined in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. CCCP blocks generation of the electrochemical proton gradient required for integral membrane protein insertion. ICM formation was induced for 8h, followed by a 4-h exposure to CCCP. Measurements of fluorescence induction/relaxation kinetics showed that CCCP caused a diminished quantum yield, a cessation in expansion of the functional absorption cross-section and a 4- to 10-fold slowing in the electron transfer turnover rate. ICM vesicles (chromatophores) and an upper-pigmented band (UPB) containing ICM growth initiation sites, were isolated and subjected to clear-native electrophoresis. Proteomic analysis of the chromatophore gel bands indicated that CCCP produced a 2.7-fold reduction in spectral counts in the preferentially assembled light-harvesting 2 (LH2) antenna, while the RC-LH1 complex, F1FO-ATPase and pyridine n	2019	11	20	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	ATPase; Bacterial photosynthesis; Light-harvesting; Membrane assembly; Reaction center; Transhydrogenase	Woronowicz	Kamil
26055116	10.1128/JB.00374-15	Members of the PpaA/AerR Antirepressor Family Bind Cobalamin.	PpaA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a member of a family of proteins that are thought to function as antirepressors of PpsR, a widely disseminated repressor of photosystem genes in purple photosynthetic bacteria. PpaA family members exhibit sequence similarity to a previously defined SCHIC (sensor containing heme instead of cobalamin) domain; however, the tetrapyrrole-binding specificity of PpaA family members has been unclear, as R. sphaeroides PpaA has been reported to bind heme while the Rhodobacter capsulatus homolog has been reported to bind cobalamin. In this study, we reinvestigated tetrapyrrole binding of PpaA from R. sphaeroides and show that it is not a heme-binding protein but is instead a cobalamin-binding protein. We also use bacterial two-hybrid analysis to show that PpaA is able to interact with PpsR and activate the expression of photosynthesis genes in vivo. Mutations in PpaA that cause loss of cobalamin binding also disrupt PpaA antirepressor activity in vivo. We als	2015	10	5	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Carrier Proteins; DNA-Binding Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heme; Heme-Binding Proteins; Hemeproteins; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Vitamin B 12	Vermeulen	Arjan J
26037711	10.1002/bit.25667	Light-field-characterization in a continuous hydrogen-producing photobioreactor by optical simulation and computational fluid dynamics.	Externally illuminated photobioreactors (PBRs) are widely used in studies on the use of phototrophic microorganisms as sources of bioenergy and other photobiotechnology research. In this work, straightforward simulation techniques were used to describe effects of varying fluid flow conditions in a continuous hydrogen-producing PBR on the rate of photofermentative hydrogen production (rH2 ) by Rhodobacter sphaeroides DSM 158. A ZEMAX optical ray tracing simulation was performed to quantify the illumination intensity reaching the interior of the cylindrical PBR vessel. 24.2% of the emitted energy was lost through optical effects, or did not reach the PBR surface. In a dense culture of continuously producing bacteria during chemostatic cultivation, the illumination intensity became completely attenuated within the first centimeter of the PBR radius as described by an empirical three-parametric model implemented in Mathcad. The bacterial movement in chemostatic steady-state conditions was 	2016	8	2	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	computational fluid dynamics; hydrogen; optical ray tracing; particle tracing; photobioreactor; Chemical Phenomena; Hydrodynamics; Hydrogen; Light; Photobioreactors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Krujatz	Felix
26032367	10.4014/jmb.1503.03080	Skin Anti-Aging Activities of Bacteriochlorophyll a from Photosynthetic Bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this work, the anti-aging skin effects of bacteriochlorophyll a isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides are first reported, with notably low cytotoxicity in the range of 1% to 14% in adding 0.00078 (% (w/w)) of the extracts, compared with the normal growth of both human dermal fibroblast and keratinocyte cells without any treatment as a control. The highest production of procollagen from human fibroblast cells (CCD-986sk) was observed as 221.7 ng/ml with 0.001 (% (w/w)) of bacteriochlorophyll a, whereas 150 and 200 ng/ml of procollagen production resulted from addition of 0.001 (% (w/w)) of the photosynthetic bacteria. The bacteriochlorophylla- induced TNF-.. production increased to 63.8%, which was lower secretion from HaCaT cells than that from addition of 0.00005 (% (w/w)) of bacteriochlorophyll a. Additionally, bacteriochlorophyll a upregulated the expression of genes related to skin anti-aging (i.e., keratin 10, involucrin, transglutaminase-1, and MMPs), by up to 4-15 times those	2016	7	25	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Antioxidation; Bacteriochlorophyll a; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Skin anti-aging activity; Antioxidants; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Cell Proliferation; Cells, Cultured; Fibroblasts; Humans; Keratin-10; Keratinocytes; Matrix Metalloproteinases; Procollagen; Protein Precursors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Skin Physiological Phenomena; Transglutaminases; Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha	Kim	Nam Young
26030916	10.1371/journal.pone.0128446	Evidence that Altered Cis Element Spacing Affects PpsR Mediated Redox Control of Photosynthesis Gene Expression in Rubrivivax gelatinosus.	PpsR is a major regulator of photosynthesis gene expression among all characterized purple photosynthetic bacteria. This transcription regulator has been extensively characterized in Rhodobacter (Rba.) capsulatus and Rba. sphaeroides which are members of the ..-proteobacteria lineage. In this study, we have investigated the biochemical properties and mutational effects of a ppsR deletion strain in the ..-proteobacterium Rubrivivax (Rvi.) gelatinosus in order to reveal phylogenetically conserved mechanisms and species-specific characteristics. A deletion of the ppsR gene resulted in de-repression of photosystem synthesis showing that PpsR functions as a repressor of photosynthesis genes in this species. We also constructed a Rvi. gelatinosus PpsR mutant in which a conserved cysteine at position 436 was changed to an alanine to examine whether or not this residue is important for sensing redox, as reported in Rhodobacter species. Surprisingly, the Cys436 Ala mutant retained the ability t	2016	4	11	PLoS One	PloS one	Burkholderiaceae; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis	Shimizu	Takayuki
26020063	10.18388/abp.2014_954	Human neutrophil peptide 3 could be functionally expressed in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Human neutrophil peptides (HNPs) possess high antimicrobial activities against a broad spectrum of microorganisms. Rhodobacter sphaeroides is the best-characterized photosynthetic bacterium and exhibits potential as a novel expression system. Up to date, no literature has been reported regarding expression of HNP3 in Rb. sphaeroides. In the present study, the HNP3 gene fragment was amplified by SOE PCR and ligated into photosynthetic bacteria light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) expression vector leading to HNP3 fusion protein expression vector. The HNP3 fusion protein was successfully expressed as rapidly evaluated by the LH2 characteristic peaks at ~800 nm and ~850 nm before purification and SDS/PAGE. Subsequently, the HNP3 fusion protein was purified by one-step affinity chromatography, and could be rapidly detected by the color and the spectral absorption at ~800 nm and ~850 nm before SDS/PAGE. Antimicrobial activity assay suggested that the HNP3 fusion protein exhibited high antimicro	2016	4	28	Acta Biochim Pol	Acta biochimica Polonica	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Chromatography, Affinity; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Genetic Vectors; Humans; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Protein Engineering; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; alpha-Defensins	Nie	Xin
26016674	10.1186/s12934-015-0252-2	Metabolic engineering of a tyrosine-overproducing yeast platform using targeted metabolomics.	L-tyrosine is a common precursor for a wide range of valuable secondary metabolites, including benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BIAs) and many polyketides. An industrially tractable yeast strain optimized for production of L-tyrosine could serve as a platform for the development of BIA and polyketide cell factories. This study applied a targeted metabolomics approach to evaluate metabolic engineering strategies to increase the availability of intracellular L-tyrosine in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae CEN.PK. Our engineering strategies combined localized pathway engineering with global engineering of central metabolism, facilitated by genome-scale steady-state modelling. Addition of a tyrosine feedback resistant version of 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate-7-phosphate synthase Aro4 from S. cerevisiae was combined with overexpression of either a tyrosine feedback resistant yeast chorismate mutase Aro7, the native pentafunctional arom protein Aro1, native prephenate dehydrogenase Tyr1 or c	2016	3	17	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Glucosephosphate Dehydrogenase; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Metabolomics; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Tyrosine	Gold	Nicholas D
26008117	10.1016/j.pep.2015.05.012	Advancing Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a platform for expression of functional membrane proteins.	Membrane protein overexpression is often hindered by toxic effects on the expression host, limiting achievable volumetric productivity. Moreover, protein structure and function may be impaired due to inclusion body formation and proteolytic degradation. To address these challenges, we employed the photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides for expression of challenging membrane proteins including human aquaporin 9 (hAQP9), human tight junction protein occludin (Occ), Escherichia coli toxin peptide GhoT, cellulose synthase enzyme complex (BcsAB) of R. sphaeroides and cytochrome-cy (Cyt-cy) from Rhodobacter capsulatus. Titers of 47 mg/L for Cyt-cy, 7.5 mg/L for Occ, 1.5 mg/L for BcsAB and 0.5 mg/L for hAQP9 were achieved from affinity purification. While purification of GhoT was not successful, transformants displayed a distinct growth phenotype that correlated with GhoT expression. We also evaluated the functionality of these proteins by performing water transport studies for hAQ	2016	6	23	Protein Expr Purif	Protein expression and purification	Anaerobic photoheterotrophic growth; Aquaporin; Cellulose synthase; Cytochrome; Membrane protein; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toxin...antitoxin; Biotechnology; Humans; Membrane Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Erbakan	Mustafa
25982357	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.05.003	Solution structure of the NDH-1 complex subunit CupS from Thermosynechococcus elongatus.	The cyanobacterial multi-subunit membrane protein complex NDH-1 is both structurally and functionally related to Complex I of eubacteria and mitochondria. In addition to functions in respiration and cyclic electron transfer around photosystem I (PSI), the cyanobacterial NDH-1 complex is involved in a unique mechanism for inorganic carbon concentration. Although the crystal structures of the similar respiratory Complex I from Thermus thermophilus and Escherichia coli are known, atomic structural information is not available for the cyanobacterial NDH-1 complex yet. In particular, the structures of those subunits that are not homologous to Complex I will help to understand their distinct functions. The 15.7kDa protein CupS is a small soluble subunit of the complex variant NDH-1MS, which is thought to play a role in CO2 conversion. Here, we present the NMR structure of CupS from Thermosynechococcus elongatus, which is the very first structure of a specific cyanobacterial NDH-1 complex sub	2019	11	20	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Bioenergetics/electron transfer complex; CupS; Cyanobacteria; Membrane proteins; NDH-1 complex; NMR protein structure	Korste	Annika
25978726	10.1038/srep09741	Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants overexpressing chlorophyllide a oxidoreductase of Blastochloris viridis elucidate functions of enzymes in late bacteriochlorophyll biosynthetic pathways.	In previous studies we have demonstrated that chlorophyllide a oxidoreductases (CORs) from bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a-producing Rhodobacter species and BChl b-producing Blastochloris viridis show distinct substrate recognition and different catalytic hydrogenation reactions, and that these two types of CORs therefore cause committed steps for BChls a and b biosynthesis. In this study, COR genes from B. viridis were incorporated and overexpressed in a series of Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants. We found that the following two factors are essential in making R. sphaeroides produce BChl b: the loss of functions of both intrinsic COR and 8-vinyl reductase (BciA) in the host R. sphaeroides strain; and expression of the BchYZ catalytic components of COR from B. viridis, not the complete set of COR (BchXYZ), in the host strain. In addition, we incorporated bchYZ of B. viridis into the R. sphaeroides mutant lacking BchJ and BciA, resulting in the strain accumulating both BChl a and BChl b. Th	2016	3	24	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Bacteriochlorophylls; Biosynthetic Pathways; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Enzyme Activation; Gene Expression; Mutation; Oxygenases; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tsukatani	Yusuke
25966178	10.4238/2015.April.27.21	Overexpression of pucC improves the heterologous protein expression level in a Rhodobacter sphaeroides expression system.	The Rhodobacter sphaeroides system has been used to express membrane proteins. However, its low yield has substantially limited its application. In order to promote the protein expression capability of this system, the pucC gene, which plays a crucial role in assembling the R. sphaeroides light-harvesting 2 complex (LH2), was overexpressed. To build a pucC overexpression strain, a pucC overexpression vector was constructed and transformed into R. sphaeroides CQU68. The overexpression efficiency was evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. A well-used reporter ..-glucuronidase (GUS) was fusion-expressed with LH2 to evaluate the heterologous protein expression level. As a result, the cell culture and protein in the pucC overexpression strain showed much higher typical spectral absorption peaks at 800 and 850 nm compared with the non-overexpression strain, suggesting a higher expression level of LH2-GUS fusion protein in the pucC overexpression strain. This result wa	2017	4	17	Genet Mol Res	Genetics and molecular research : GMR	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression; Genes, Reporter; Glucuronidase; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transgenes	Cheng	L
25937218	10.1134/S1607672915020039	Electronic relaxation in P* state of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	NA	2016	1	20	Dokl Biochem Biophys	Doklady. Biochemistry and biophysics	Bacterial Proteins; Electromagnetic Phenomena; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Vibration	Yakovlev	A G
25925567	10.1093/nar/gkv415	Argonaute of the archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus is a DNA-guided nuclease that targets cognate DNA.	Functions of prokaryotic Argonautes (pAgo) have long remained elusive. Recently, Argonautes of the bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Thermus thermophilus were demonstrated to be involved in host defense. The Argonaute of the archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus (PfAgo) belongs to a different branch in the phylogenetic tree, which is most closely related to that of RNA interference-mediating eukaryotic Argonautes. Here we describe a functional and mechanistic characterization of PfAgo. Like the bacterial counterparts, archaeal PfAgo contributes to host defense by interfering with the uptake of plasmid DNA. PfAgo utilizes small 5'-phosphorylated DNA guides to cleave both single stranded and double stranded DNA targets, and does not utilize RNA as guide or target. Thus, with respect to function and specificity, the archaeal PfAgo resembles bacterial Argonautes much more than eukaryotic Argonautes. These findings demonstrate that the role of Argonautes is conserved through the bacterial and arc	2015	8	17	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Archaeal Proteins; Argonaute Proteins; Catalytic Domain; DNA; DNA Cleavage; Endodeoxyribonucleases; Plasmids; Pyrococcus furiosus; Transformation, Genetic	Swarts	Daan C
25885036	10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b03434	Hydrogen bond network around the semiquinone of the secondary quinone acceptor Q(B) in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers.	By utilizing a combined pulsed EPR and DFT approach, the high-resolution structure of the QB site semiquinone (SQB) was determined. The development of such a technique is crucial toward an understanding of protein-bound semiquinones on the structural level, as (i) membrane protein crystallography typically results in low resolution structures, and (ii) obtaining protein crystals in the semiquinone form is rarely feasible. The SQB hydrogen bond network was investigated with Q- (...34 GHz) and X-band (...9.7 GHz) pulsed EPR spectroscopy on fully deuterated reactions centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Simulations in the SQB g-tensor reference frame provided the principal values and directions of the H-bond proton hyperfine tensors. Three protons were detected, one with an anisotropic tensor component, T = 4.6 MHz, assigned to the histidine N..H of His-L190, and two others with similar anisotropic constants T = 3.2 and 3.0 MHz assigned to the peptide NpH of Gly-L225 and Ile-L224, respec	2016	2	1	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Hydrogen Bonding; Least-Squares Analysis; Linear Models; Models, Chemical; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solvents; Spectrum Analysis; Water	Taguchi	Alexander T
25871644	10.1016/j.bbabio.2015.04.001	Functional characteristics of spirilloxanthin and keto-bearing Analogues in light-harvesting LH2 complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with a genetically modified carotenoid synthesis pathway.	Light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complexes from a genetically modified strain of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides were studied using static and ultrafast optical methods and resonance Raman spectroscopy. Carotenoid synthesis in the Rba. sphaeroides strain was engineered to redirect carotenoid production away from spheroidene into the spirilloxanthin synthesis pathway. The strain assembles LH2 antennas with substantial amounts of spirilloxanthin (total double-bond conjugation length N=13) if grown anaerobically and of keto-bearing long-chain analogs [2-ketoanhydrorhodovibrin (N=13), 2-ketospirilloxanthin (N=14) and 2,2'-diketospirilloxanthin (N=15)] if grown semi-aerobically (with ratios that depend on growth conditions). We present the photophysical, electronic, and vibrational properties of these carotenoids, both isolated in organic media and assembled within LH2 complexes. Measurements of excited-state energy transfer to the array of excitonically coupled b	2015	8	18	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Carotenoid; Diketospirilloxanthin; Energy transfer; Keto-carotenoid; LH2; Spirilloxanthin; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Biosynthetic Pathways; Carotenoids; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Xanthophylls	Niedzwiedzki	Dariusz M
25862499	10.1016/j.febslet.2015.03.033	Nitric oxide is a potent inhibitor of the cbb(3)-type heme-copper oxidases.	C-type heme-copper oxidases terminate the respiratory chain in many pathogenic bacteria, and will encounter elevated concentrations of NO produced by the immune defense of the host. Thus, a decreased sensitivity to NO in C-type oxidases would increase the survival of these pathogens. Here we have compared the inhibitory effect of NO in C-type oxidases to that in the mitochondrial A-type. We show that O2-reduction in both the Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Vibrio cholerae C-type oxidases is strongly and reversibly inhibited by submicromolar NO, with an inhibition pattern similar to the A-type. Thus, NO tolerance in pathogens with a C-type terminal oxidase has to rely mainly on other mechanisms. 	2015	7	10	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	Catalytic site; Cytochrome c oxidase; IC(50); Nitrite; Respiration; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Enzyme Inhibitors; Nitric Oxide; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibrio cholerae	Arjona	Davinia
25837504	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2015.02.003	Tackling codon usage bias for heterologous expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides by supplementation of rare tRNAs.	The photosynthetic Rhodobacter species are promising alternative expression hosts in bioproduction and biorefinery due to their unique metabolic capacities. With prominent inner membrane areas and efficient endogenous translocation machineries, they are especially attractive for membrane protein expression. However, codon usage bias could be a limitation in the engineering of Rhodobacter species and has seldom been investigated. In this study, we tackled the codon bias of Rhodobacter by functionally expressing 8 rare tRNAs of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with a multi-copy vector. The impact of tRNA supplementation was evaluated through monitoring expression levels of two heterologous proteins with different phylogenetic origins, a membrane subunit of the riboflavin transporter, RibU, from Lactobacillus acidophilus La-14 and a decaheme cytochrome, MtrA, from Shewanella oneidensis. Our results showed that the performances were closely related to medium composition and rare codon percentages o	2016	4	22	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	Bacterial expression system; Codon bias; Heterologous expression level; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; tRNA level; ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Bioengineering; Codon; DNA, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Membrane Transport Proteins; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Transfer; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cheng	Danhui
25833751	10.1080/15476286.2015.1031948	The sRNA SorY confers resistance during photooxidative stress by affecting a metabolite transporter in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Exposure to oxygen and light generates photooxidative stress by the bacteriochlorophyll a mediated formation of singlet oxygen ((1)O2) in the facultative photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We have identified SorY as an sRNA, which is induced under several stress conditions and confers increased resistance against (1)O2. SorY by direct interaction affects the takP mRNA, encoding a TRAP-T transporter. We present a model in which SorY reduces the metabolite flux into the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) by reducing malate import through TakP. It was previously shown that oxidative stress in bacteria leads to switch from glycolysis to the pentose phosphate pathway and to reduced activity of the TCA cycle. As a consequence the production of the prooxidant NADH is reduced and production of the protective NADPH is enhanced. In R. sphaeroides enzymes for glycolysis, pentose phosphate pathway, Entner-Doudoroff pathway and gluconeogenesis are induced in response to (1)O2 by th	2016	2	1	RNA Biol	RNA biology	Hfq; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; carbon metabolism; photooxidative stress; sRNA; singlet oxygen; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light; Malates; Molecular Sequence Data; Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis; Oxidative Stress; Phenotype; Point Mutation; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen; Stress, Physiological	Adnan	Fazal
25817210	10.1016/j.ymben.2015.03.012	Identification and elimination of metabolic bottlenecks in the quinone modification pathway for enhanced coenzyme Q10 production in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this report, UbiE and UbiH in the quinone modification pathway (QMP) were identified in addition to UbiG as bottleneck enzymes in the CoQ10 biosynthesis by Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The CoQ10 content was enhanced after co-overexpression of UbiE and UbiG, however, accompanied by the accumulation of the intermediate 10P-MMBQ. UbiH was then co-overexpressed to pull the metabolic flux towards downstream, resulting in an elevated CoQ10 productivity and decreased biomass. On the other hand, the expression levels of UbiE and UbiG were tuned to eliminate the intermediate accumulation, however at the sacrifice of productivity. To alleviate the detrimental effect on either productivity or cell growth, we tried to fuse UbiG with UbiE and localize them onto the membrane to elevate intermediate conversion. By fusing UbiE and UbiG to pufX, CoQ10 was accumulated to 108.51..2.76mg/L with a biomass of 12.2..0.9g/L. At last, we combined the optimized QMP and the previously engineered 2-methyl-d-erythr	2016	2	4	Metab Eng	Metabolic engineering	Bottleneck removal; CoQ(10); Fusion expression; Intermediate elimination; Quinone modification pathway; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Methyltransferases; Mixed Function Oxygenases; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Lu	Wenqiang
25777678	10.1128/JB.02475-14	A cluster of four homologous small RNAs modulates C1 metabolism and the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under various stress conditions.	In bacteria, regulatory RNAs play an important role in the regulation and balancing of many cellular processes and stress responses. Among these regulatory RNAs, trans-encoded small RNAs (sRNAs) are of particular interest since one sRNA can lead to the regulation of multiple target mRNAs. In the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, several sRNAs are induced by oxidative stress. In this study, we focused on the functional characterization of four homologous sRNAs that are cotranscribed with the gene for the conserved hypothetical protein RSP_6037, a genetic arrangement described for only a few sRNAs until now. Each of the four sRNAs is characterized by two stem-loops that carry CCUCCUCCC motifs in their loops. They are induced under oxidative stress, as well as by various other stress conditions, and were therefore renamed here sRNAs CcsR1 to CcsR4 (CcsR1-4) for conserved CCUCCUCCC motif stress-induced RNAs 1 to 4. Increased CcsR1-4 expression decreases the expression of genes invo	2015	6	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Base Sequence; Carbon; Electron Transport; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glutathione; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Oxidative Stress; Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Complex; RNA, Small Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology	Billenkamp	Fabian
25760888	10.1021/bi501553t	Protonated rhodosemiquinone at the Q(B) binding site of the M265IT mutant reaction center of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The second electron transfer from primary ubiquinone Q(A) to secondary ubiquinone Q(B) in the reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides involves a protonated Q(B)(-) intermediate state whose low pK(a) makes direct observation impossible. Here, we replaced the native ubiquinone with low-potential rhodoquinone at the Q(B) binding site of the M265IT mutant RC. Because the in situ midpoint redox potential of Q(A) of this mutant was lowered approximately the same extent (...100 mV) as that of Q(B) upon exchange of ubiquinone with low-potential rhodoquinone, the inter-quinone (Q(A) ... Q(B)) electron transfer became energetically favorable. After subsequent saturating flash excitations, a period of two damped oscillations of the protonated rhodosemiquinone was observed. The Q(B)H(...) was identified by (1) the characteristic band at 420 nm of the absorption spectrum after the second flash and (2) weaker damping of the oscillation at 420 nm (due to the neutral form) than at 460 nm (at	2015	6	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone	Mar..ti	..gnes
25752994	10.1016/j.plasmid.2015.02.003	Maintenance and genetic load of plasmid pKON1 of Paracoccus kondratievae, containing a highly efficient toxin-antitoxin module of the hipAB family.	Paracoccus kondratievae NCIMB 13773(T), isolated from the maize rhizosphere, carries a large (95,049 bp) plasmid pKON1, whose structure has been significantly influenced by transposition. Almost 30% of the plasmid genome is composed of complete or truncated insertion sequences (ISs), representing seven IS families. The ISs are accompanied by numerous genes and gene clusters commonly found in bacterial chromosomes, encoding, among others, (i) a putative type III secretion system of the Rhizobiales-T3SS family, (ii) a type I restriction-modification system associated with the anti-codon nuclease (ACNase) gene prrC and (iii) OstA and OstB proteins involved in trehalose synthesis. The backbone of pKON1 is composed of replication and partitioning modules conserved in several large alphaproteobacterial replicons, including secondary chromid pAMI6 of Paracoccus aminophilus JCM 7686 and chromosome 2 (chromid) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. pKON1 also contains a toxin-antitoxin system of the	2016	5	17	Plasmid	Plasmid	Alphaproteobacteria; Insertion sequence; Paracoccus kondratievae; Plasmid genomics; Toxin...antitoxin; hipAB; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Toxins; Base Composition; Base Sequence; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Genetic Loci; Molecular Sequence Data; Paracoccus; Plasmids; Replicon; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Czarnecki	Jakub
25751412	10.1038/ncomms7530	Demonstration of asymmetric electron conduction in pseudosymmetrical photosynthetic reaction centre proteins in an electrical circuit.	Photosynthetic reaction centres show promise for biomolecular electronics as nanoscale solar-powered batteries and molecular diodes that are amenable to atomic-level re-engineering. In this work the mechanism of electron conduction across the highly tractable Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre is characterized by conductive atomic force microscopy. We find, using engineered proteins of known structure, that only one of the two cofactor wires connecting the positive and negative termini of this reaction centre is capable of conducting unidirectional current under a suitably oriented bias, irrespective of the magnitude of the bias or the applied force at the tunnelling junction. This behaviour, strong functional asymmetry in a largely symmetrical protein-cofactor matrix, recapitulates the strong functional asymmetry characteristic of natural photochemical charge separation, but it is surprising given that the stimulus for electron flow is simply an externally applied bias. Reasons f	2016	2	9	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Coenzymes; Electric Conductivity; Electrochemical Techniques; Electron Transport; Electronics; Electrons; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy	Kamran	Muhammad
25737481	10.1099/mic.0.000067	New insight into the photoheterotrophic growth of the isocytrate lyase-lacking purple bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum on acetate.	Purple non-sulfur bacteria are well known for their metabolic versatility. One of these bacteria, Rhodospirillum rubrum S1H, has been selected by the European Space Agency to ensure the photoheterotrophic assimilation of volatile fatty acids in its regenerative life support system, MELiSSA. Here, we combined proteomic analysis with bacterial growth analysis and enzymatic activity assays in order to better understand acetate photoassimilation. In this isocitrate lyase-lacking organism, the assimilation of two-carbon compounds cannot occur through the glyoxylate shunt, and the citramalate cycle has been proposed to fill this role, while, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway is used for acetate assimilation. Using proteomic analysis, we were able to identify and quantify more than 1700 unique proteins, representing almost one-half of the theoretical proteome of the strain. Our data reveal that a pyruvate...:...ferredoxin oxidoreductase (NifJ) could be used for the dire	2016	2	24	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	Acetates; Acyl Coenzyme A; Biological Transport; Carbon; Fatty Acids; Glutaryl-CoA Dehydrogenase; Light; Malates; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Oxidation-Reduction; Proteomics; Rhodospirillum rubrum	Leroy	B
25734689	10.1021/acs.biochem.5b00033	Redox potential tuning through differential quinone binding in the photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Ubiquinone forms an integral part of the electron transport chain in cellular respiration and photosynthesis across a vast number of organisms. Prior experimental results have shown that the photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is only fully functional with a limited set of methoxy-bearing quinones, suggesting that specific interactions with this substituent are required to drive electron transport and the formation of quinol. The nature of these interactions has yet to be determined. Through parameterization of a CHARMM-compatible quinone force field and subsequent molecular dynamics simulations of the quinone-bound RC, we have investigated and characterized the interactions of the protein with the quinones in the Q(A) and Q(B) sites using both equilibrium simulation and thermodynamic integration. In particular, we identify a specific interaction between the 2-methoxy group of ubiquinone in the Q(B) site and the amide nitrogen of GlyL225 that we implicate i	2015	6	22	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Vermaas	Josh V
25733615	10.1128/JB.02510-14	Oxygen-dependent regulation of bacterial lipid production.	Understanding the mechanisms of lipid accumulation in microorganisms is important for several reasons. In addition to providing insight into assembly of biological membranes, lipid accumulation has important applications in the production of renewable fuels and chemicals. The photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an attractive organism to study lipid accumulation, as it has the ability to increase membrane production at low O2 tensions. Under these conditions, R. sphaeroides develops invaginations of the cytoplasmic membrane to increase its membrane surface area for housing of the membrane-bound components of its photosynthetic apparatus. Here we use fatty acid levels as a reporter of membrane lipid content. We show that, under low-O2 and anaerobic conditions, the total fatty acid content per cell increases 3-fold. We also find that the increases in the amount of fatty acid and photosynthetic pigment per cell are correlated as O2 tensions or light intensity are changed. T	2015	6	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Anaerobiosis; Fatty Acids; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Lipid Metabolism; Oxygen; Pigments, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Lemmer	Kimberly C
25725215	10.1016/j.micron.2015.02.001	A comparison of the surface nanostructure from two different types of gram-negative cells: Escherichia coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacteria have been studied using different microscopy methods for many years. Recently, the developments of high-speed atomic force microscopy have opened the doors to study bacteria in new ways due to the fact that it uses much less force on the sample while imaging. This makes the high-speed atomic force microscope an indispensable technique for imaging the surface of living bacterial cells because it allows for the high-resolution visualization of surface proteins in their natural condition without disrupting the cell or the activity of the proteins. Previous work examining living cells of Magnetospirillum magneticum AMB-1 demonstrated that the surface of these bacteria was covered with a net-like structure that is mainly composed of porin molecules. However, it was unclear whether or not this feature was unique to other living bacteria. In this study we used the high-speed atomic force microscope to examine the surface of living cells of Escherichia coli and Rhodobacter sphaeroides	2015	12	31	Micron	Micron (Oxford, England : 1993)	High-speed atomic force microscopy; Outer bacterial membrane; Porin; Rhodobacter spheroides; Escherichia coli; Magnetospirillum; Membrane Proteins; Microbial Viability; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Nanostructures; Porins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Oestreicher	Zachery
25723545	10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004103	An integrated approach to reconstructing genome-scale transcriptional regulatory networks.	Transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) program cells to dynamically alter their gene expression in response to changing internal or environmental conditions. In this study, we develop a novel workflow for generating large-scale TRN models that integrates comparative genomics data, global gene expression analyses, and intrinsic properties of transcription factors (TFs). An assessment of this workflow using benchmark datasets for the well-studied ..-proteobacterium Escherichia coli showed that it outperforms expression-based inference approaches, having a significantly larger area under the precision-recall curve. Further analysis indicated that this integrated workflow captures different aspects of the E. coli TRN than expression-based approaches, potentially making them highly complementary. We leveraged this new workflow and observations to build a large-scale TRN model for the ..-Proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides that comprises 120 gene clusters, 1211 genes (including 93 TF	2015	9	21	PLoS Comput Biol	PLoS computational biology	Computational Biology; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Regulatory Networks; Genome, Bacterial; Models, Genetic; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Imam	Saheed
25708583	10.1007/s00284-015-0789-7	The effect of CbbR-binding affinity to the upstream of cbbF and cfxB on the metabolic effector in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a non-sulfur photosynthetic bacterium that possesses two cbb operons, cbb I and cbb II , encoding enzymes involved in the Calvin-Bensom-Bassham reductive pentose phosphate pathway of carbon dioxide fixation. In the present study, a number of molecules have been identified that have the ability to alter the in vivo DNA-binding properties of CbbR protein in R. sphaeroides. The CbbR-binding sites on the cbb operon in R. sphaeroides were characterized by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay. The ChIP assay indicated that the CbbR protein binds specifically to the upstream regions cbbF in cbb I operon and cfxB in cbb II operon. The change in the binding of CbbR to the upstream of cbbF and cfxB in the presence of RuBP, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, NADPH, KH2PO4 was observed under anaerobic, aerobic, aerobic light-dark, and aerobic dark conditions, respectively. From these results, the role of different co-inducer molecules in influencing the interactions of Cbb	2016	1	18	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chromatin Immunoprecipitation; Culture Media; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; Darkness; Light; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Lee	Hyun Jeong
25698106	10.1007/s11120-015-0096-y	Induction and anisotropy of fluorescence of reaction center from photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Submillisecond dark-light changes of the yield (induction) and anisotropy of fluorescence under laser diode excitation were measured in the photosynthetic reaction center of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Narrow band (1-2 nm) laser diodes emitting at 808 and 865 nm were used to selectively excite the accessory bacteriochlorophyll (B, 800 nm) or the upper excitonic state of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer (P-, 810 nm) and the lower excitonic state of the dimer (P+, 865 nm), respectively. The fluorescence spectrum of the wild type showed two bands centered at 850 nm (B) and 910 nm (P-). While the monotonous decay of the fluorescence yield at 910 nm tracked the light-induced oxidation of the dimer, the kinetics of the fluorescence yield at 850 nm showed an initial rise before a decrease. The anisotropy of the fluorescence excited at 865 nm (P-) was very close to the limiting value (0.4) across the whole spectral range. The excitation of both B and P- at 808 nm resulted in wav	2016	9	8	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence; Depolarization; Electronic excitation transfer; Light-induced electron transfer; Purple photosynthetic bacteria; Reaction center; Fluorescence Polarization; Light; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sipka	G..bor
25689864	10.1371/journal.pone.0117738	A simple method for encapsulating single cells in alginate microspheres allows for direct PCR and whole genome amplification.	Microdroplets are an effective platform for segregating individual cells and amplifying DNA. However, a key challenge is to recover the contents of individual droplets for downstream analysis. This paper offers a method for embedding cells in alginate microspheres and performing multiple serial operations on the isolated cells. Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells were diluted in alginate polymer and sprayed into microdroplets using a fingertip aerosol sprayer. The encapsulated cells were lysed and subjected either to conventional PCR, or whole genome amplification using either multiple displacement amplification (MDA) or a two-step PCR protocol. Microscopic examination after PCR showed that the lumen of the occupied microspheres contained fluorescently stained DNA product, but multiple displacement amplification with phi29 produced only a small number of polymerase colonies. The 2-step WGA protocol was successful in generating fluorescent material, and quantitative PCR from DNA extracted fro	2016	1	8	PLoS One	PloS one	Alginates; Capsules; Cell Separation; Feasibility Studies; Genome, Bacterial; Glucuronic Acid; Hexuronic Acids; Microspheres; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Bigdeli	Saharnaz
25680581	10.1007/s11120-015-0095-z	How do surrounding environments influence the electronic and vibrational properties of spheroidene?	Absorption and Raman spectra of spheroidene dissolved in various organic solvents and bound to peripheral light-harvesting LH2 complexes from photosynthetic purple bacteria Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides 2.4.1 were measured. The results showed that the peak energies of absorption and C-C and C=C stretching Raman lines are linearly proportional to the polarizability of solvents, as has already been reported. When comparing these results with those measured on LH2 complexes, it was confirmed that spheroidene is surrounded by a media with high polarizability. However, the change in the spectral width of the Raman lines, which reflect vibrational decay time, cannot be explained simply by a similar dependence of solvent polarizability. The experimental results were analyzed using a potential theoretical model. Consequently, a systematic change in the Raman line widths in the ground state can be satisfactorily explained as a function of the viscosity of the surrounding media. Even when the a	2016	1	12	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Carotenoids; Electrons; Environment; Solvents; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Thermodynamics; Vibration	Tonouchi	Noriyuki
25665603	10.3760/cma.j.issn.2095-4352.2015.02.001	[Unfractionated heparin inhibits lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in human endothelial cells through Toll-like receptor 4 signaling pathway].	To determine the effect of unfractionated heparin (UFH) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced expression of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and the role of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway in this process. Human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs) were cultured in vitro, and the cells between passages 3 and 5 were used in the experiments. Experiment I: the cells were divided into four groups as follows: control group, LPS stimulation group (LPS 10 ..g/mL), LPS + 0.1 U/mL UFH group, and LPS + 1 U/mL UFH group. HPMECs in UFH groups were treated with 0.1 U/mL or 1 U/mL UFH 15 minutes before LPS stimulation, and HPMECs in control group were treated with an equal volume of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) instead. The concentrations of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and G-CSF in cell culture supernatants were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 24 hours after LPS challenge to detect the effect of UFH on HPMECs. Experiment II: HPMECs were tre	2016	3	30	Zhonghua Wei Zhong Bing Ji Jiu Yi Xue	Zhonghua wei zhong bing ji jiu yi xue	Cells, Cultured; Cytokines; Endothelial Cells; Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor; Heparin; Humans; Interleukin-6; Lipopolysaccharides; Lung; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Xu
25650399	10.1128/mBio.02461-14	CceR and AkgR regulate central carbon and energy metabolism in alphaproteobacteria.	Many pathways of carbon and energy metabolism are conserved across the phylogeny, but the networks that regulate their expression or activity often vary considerably among organisms. In this work, we show that two previously uncharacterized transcription factors (TFs) are direct regulators of genes encoding enzymes of central carbon and energy metabolism in the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The LacI family member CceR (RSP_1663) directly represses genes encoding enzymes in the Entner-Doudoroff pathway, while activating those encoding the F1F0 ATPase and enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and gluconeogenesis, providing a direct transcriptional network connection between carbon and energy metabolism. We identified bases that are important for CceR DNA binding and showed that DNA binding by this TF is inhibited by 6-phosphogluconate. We also showed that the GntR family TF AkgR (RSP_0981) directly activates genes encoding several TCA cycle enzymes, and we identif	2016	3	14	mBio	mBio	Bacterial Proteins; Carbon; Citric Acid Cycle; Energy Metabolism; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Imam	Saheed
25635101	10.1126/science.1260590	Protein structure. Crystal structures of translocator protein (TSPO) and mutant mimic of a human polymorphism.	The 18-kilodalton translocator protein (TSPO), proposed to be a key player in cholesterol transport into mitochondria, is highly expressed in steroidogenic tissues, metastatic cancer, and inflammatory and neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. TSPO ligands, including benzodiazepine drugs, are implicated in regulating apoptosis and are extensively used in diagnostic imaging. We report crystal structures (at 1.8, 2.4, and 2.5 angstrom resolution) of TSPO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and a mutant that mimics the human Ala(147)...Thr(147) polymorphism associated with psychiatric disorders and reduced pregnenolone production. Crystals obtained in the lipidic cubic phase reveal the binding site of an endogenous porphyrin ligand and conformational effects of the mutation. The three crystal structures show the same tightly interacting dimer and provide insights into the controversial physiological role of TSPO and how the mutation affects cholesterol binding. 	2015	2	19	Science	Science (New York, N.Y.)	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cholesterol; Crystallography, X-Ray; Humans; Hydrogen Bonding; Isoquinolines; Ligands; Membrane Transport Proteins; Models, Molecular; Molecular Sequence Data; Mutant Proteins; Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide; Porphyrins; Protein Conformation; Protein Multimerization; Protein Structure, Secondary; Protoporphyrins; Receptors, GABA; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Li	Fei
25629767	10.1165/rcmb.2014-0370OC	House Dust Mite Allergens and the Induction of Monocyte Interleukin 1.. Production That Triggers an I..B..-Dependent Granulocyte Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor Release from Human Lung Epithelial Cells.	Asthma is a chronic lung disease characterized by inflammation centered upon bronchial epithelium. House dust mite is one of the most common respiratory allergens that trigger exacerbations of asthma. I..B.. (gene NFKBIZ) is a recently recognized member of the NF-..B family that can be induced in mononuclear phagocytes and lung epithelial cells and has been shown to play a prominent role in epithelial cell function. We therefore analyzed the role of I..B.. in regulating lung epithelial cell cytokine responses to house dust mite mix (HDM). We found that human bronchial epithelial cells express I..B.. and release IL-6 and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GMCSF) when cocultured with human monocytes and HDM. This response is blocked in the presence of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra), indicating that it is IL-1 mediated. Neither HDM-stimulated macrophages nor dendritic cells release IL-1.. and subsequently induce cytokine release from the bronchial epithelial cells. Rhodo	2015	11	23	Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol	American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	IL-1..; NFKBIZ; asthma; epithelium; house dust mite; Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing; Allergens; Alveolar Epithelial Cells; Animals; Asthma; Cell Line; Cell Nucleus; Coculture Techniques; Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor; Humans; I-kappa B Proteins; Interleukin-1beta; Lipopolysaccharides; Monocytes; Nuclear Proteins; Pyroglyphidae; Respiratory Mucosa	Sundaram	Kruthika
25606686	10.1016/j.bpj.2014.11.3463	Stigmatellin probes the electrostatic potential in the QB site of the photosynthetic reaction center.	The electrostatic potential in the secondary quinone (QB) binding site of the reaction center (RC) of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides determines the rate and free energy change (driving force) of electron transfer to QB. It is controlled by the ionization states of residues in a strongly interacting cluster around the QB site. Reduction of the QB induces change of the ionization states of residues and binding of protons from the bulk. Stigmatellin, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial and photosynthetic respiratory chain, has been proven to be a unique voltage probe of the QB binding pocket. It binds to the QB site with high affinity, and the pK value of its phenolic group monitors the local electrostatic potential with high sensitivity. Investigations with different types of detergent as a model system of isolated RC revealed that the pK of stigmatellin was controlled overwhelmingly by electrostatic and slightly by hydrophobic interactions. Measurements showed a high	2015	10	7	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Amino Acid Sequence; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Molecular Sequence Data; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polyenes; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Gerencs..r	L..szl..
25588956	10.1007/s10534-014-9818-4	Erratum to: The lipidome of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 is affected by cobalt and chromate ions stress.	NA	2015	5	21	Biometals	Biometals : an international journal on the role of metal ions in biology, biochemistry, and medicine	NA	Calvano	Cosima Damiana
25563849	10.1038/srep07657	Insights into the species-specific TLR4 signaling mechanism in response to Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipid A detection.	TLR4 in complex with MD2 senses the presence of lipid A (LA) and initiates a signaling cascade that curb the infection. This complex is evolutionarily conserved and can initiate the immune system in response to a variety of LAs. In this study, molecular dynamics simulation (25...ns) was performed to elucidate the differential behavior of TLR4/MD2 complex in response to Rhodobacter sphaeroides lipid A (RsLA). Penta-acyl chain-containing RsLA is at the verge of agonist (6 acyl-chains) and antagonist (4 acyl-chains) structure, and activates the TLR4 pathway in horses and hamsters, while inhibiting in humans and murine. In the time-evolved coordinates, the promising factors that dictated the differential response included the local and global mobility pattern of complexes, solvent-accessible surface area of ligand, and surface charge distributions of TLR4 and MD2. We showed that the GlcN1-GlcN2 backbone acquires agonist (3FXI)-like configurations in horses and hamsters, while acquiring ant	2015	11	3	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Animals; Cricetinae; Horses; Humans; Ligands; Lipid A; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Mice; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Protein Binding; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Species Specificity; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Anwar	Muhammad Ayaz
25559126	10.1021/bi5013657	Role of phospholipids of subunit III in the regulation of structural rearrangements in cytochrome c oxidase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Subunit III of cytochrome c oxidase possesses structural domains that contain conserved phospholipid binding sites. Mutations within these domains induce a loss of phospholipid binding, coinciding with decreased electron transfer activity. Functional and structural roles for phospholipids in the enzyme from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been investigated. Upon the removal of intrinsic lipids using phospholipase A2, electron transfer activity was decreased 30-50%. Moreover, the delipidated enzyme exhibited turnover-induced, suicide inactivation, which was reversed by the addition of exogenous lipids, most specifically by cardiolipin. Cardiolipin exhibited two sites of interaction with the delipidated enzyme, a high-affinity site (Km = 0.14 ..M) and a low-affinity site (Km = 26 ..M). Subunit I of the delipidated enzyme exhibited a faster digestion rate when it was treated with ..-chymotrypsin compared to that of the wild-type enzyme, suggesting that lipid removal induces a conformational 	2015	4	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Cattle; Electron Transport Complex IV; Phospholipids; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Alnajjar	Khadijeh S
27246049	10.1038/nplants.2014.2	Degradation of potent Rubisco inhibitor by selective sugar phosphatase.	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) catalyses the conversion of atmospheric carbon dioxide into organic compounds in photosynthetic organisms. Alongside carboxylating the five-carbon sugar ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP)(1-3), Rubisco produces a small amount of xylulose-1,5-bisphosphate (XuBP), a potent inhibitor of Rubisco(4). The AAA+ protein Rubisco activase removes XuBP from the active site of Rubisco in an ATP-dependent process(5,6). However, free XuBP rapidly rebinds to Rubisco, perpetuating its inhibitory effect. Here, we combine biochemical and structural analyses to show that the CbbY protein of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Arabidopsis thaliana is a highly selective XuBP phosphatase. We also show that CbbY converts XuBP to the non-inhibitory compound xylulose-5-phosphate, which is recycled back to RuBP. We solve the crystal structures of CbbY from R. sphaeroides and A. thaliana, and through mutational analysis show that the ca	2016	6	3	Nat Plants	Nature plants	NA	Bracher	Andreas
25537720	10.4014/jmb.1411.11050	Analysis of Heme Biosynthetic Pathways in a Recombinant Escherichia coli.	Bacterial heme was produced from a genetic-engineered Escherichia coli via the porphyrin pathway and it was useful as an iron resource for animal feed. The amount of the E. colisynthesized heme, however, was only few milligrams in a culture broth and it was not enough for industrial applications. To analyze heme biosynthetic pathways, an engineered E. coli artificially overexpressing ALA synthase (hemA from Rhodobacter sphaeroides) and pantothenate kinase (coaA gene from self geneome) was constructed as a bacterial heme-producing strain, and both the transcription levels of pathway genes and the intermediates concentrations were determined from batch and continuous cultures. Transcription levels of the pathway genes were not significantly changed among the tested conditions. Intracellular intermediate concentrations indicated that aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and coenzyme A (CoA) were enhanced by the hemA-coaA co-expression. Intracellular coproporphyrinogen I and protoporphyrin IX accumul	2016	3	14	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Biosynthetic Pathways; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Profiling; Heme; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Flux Analysis	Pranawidjaja	Stephanie
25418478	10.4014/jmb.1410.10067	Effect of changes in the composition of cellular fatty acids on membrane fluidity of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The cellular fatty acid composition is important for metabolic plasticity in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We explored the effects of changing the cellular ratio of unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) to saturated fatty acids (SFAs) in R. sphaeroides by overexpressing several key fatty acid biosynthetic enzymes through the use of expression plasmid pRK415. Bacteria containing the plasmid pRKfabI1 with the fabI1 gene that encodes enoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) reductase showed a reduction in the cellular UFA to SFA ratio from 4 (80% UFA) to 2 (65% UFA) and had decreased membrane fluidity and reduced cell growth. Additionally, the ratio of UFA to SFA of the chromatophore vesicles from pRKfabI1 -containing cells was similarly lowered, and the cell had decreased levels of light-harvesting complexes, but no change in intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) content or photosynthetic (PS) gene expression. Both inhibition of enoyl- ACP reductase with diazaborine and addition of exogenous UFA restored membrane	2015	12	21	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	3-Oxoacyl-(Acyl-Carrier-Protein) Synthase; Chromatography, Gas; Enoyl-(Acyl-Carrier Protein) Reductase (NADPH, B-Specific); Fatty Acids; Fatty Acids, Unsaturated; Isoenzymes; Membrane Fluidity; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kim	Eui-Jin
29034642	10.13345/j.cjb.160218	[Construction of recombinant strains co-expressing PPK and GMAS for the synthesis of L-theanine].	Recombinant strains expressing enzymes for ATP regeneration and L-theanine production were constructed and used for the synthesis of L-theanine. The ppk gene encoding polyphosphate kinase (PPK) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and gmas gene encoding ..-glutamylmethylamide synthetase (GMAS) from Methylovorus mays were synthesized, and two recombinant plasmids, pETDuet-ppk+gmas and pET21a-ppk+gmas were constructed for co-expression of PPK and GMAS in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). SDS-PAGE analysis showed that PPK and GMAS were overexpressed in soluble form in both recombinant strains. GMAS-PPK obtained from the recombinant strain containing pET21a-ppk+gmas was more efficient to synthesize L-theanine. After 24 h at 37 ... and pH at 7.0, 86.0% yield of L-theanine was achieved with catalytic amount of ATP. This study extends the application of enzymatic ATP regeneration system. In addition, it provides an efficient method for the biosynthesis of L-theanine. ..................ATP .........L-......	2018	2	15	Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao	Sheng wu gong cheng xue bao = Chinese journal of biotechnology	ATP regeneration; L-theanine; co-expression; dual-enzyme coupled reaction; polyphosphate kinase; ..-glutamylmethylamide synthetase; Carbon-Nitrogen Ligases; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Escherichia coli; Glutamates; Ligases; Phosphotransferases (Phosphate Group Acceptor)	Li	Yuan
28348828	10.1099/mgen.0.000081	The RegA regulon exhibits variability in response to altered growth conditions and differs markedly between <i>Rhodobacter</i> species.	The RegB/RegA two-component system from Rhodobacter capsulatus regulates global changes in gene expression in response to alterations in oxygen levels. Studies have shown that RegB/RegA controls many energy-generating and energy-utilizing systems such as photosynthesis, nitrogen fixation, carbon fixation, hydrogen utilization, respiration, electron transport and denitrification. In this report, we utilized RNA-seq and ChIP-seq to analyse the breadth of genes indirectly and directly regulated by RegA. A comparison of mRNA transcript levels in wild type cells relative to a RegA deletion strain shows that there are 257 differentially expressed genes under photosynthetic defined minimal growth medium conditions and 591 differentially expressed genes when grown photosynthetically in a complex rich medium. ChIP-seq analysis also identified 61 unique RegA binding sites with a well-conserved recognition sequence, 33 of which exhibit changes in neighbouring gene expression. These transcr	2018	11	1	Microb Genom	Microbial genomics	PrrA homologue; global transcription factor binding; microbial photosynthesis; redox regulation; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Regulon; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Species Specificity	Schindel	Heidi S
28114766	10.1021/acsnano.6b05647	Direct Imaging of Protein Organization in an Intact Bacterial Organelle Using High-Resolution Atomic Force Microscopy.	The function of bioenergetic membranes is strongly influenced by the spatial arrangement of their constituent membrane proteins. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) can be used to probe protein organization at high resolution, allowing individual proteins to be identified. However, previous AFM studies of biological membranes have typically required that curved membranes are ruptured and flattened during sample preparation, with the possibility of disruption of the native protein arrangement or loss of proteins. Imaging native, curved membranes requires minimal tip-sample interaction in both lateral and vertical directions. Here, long-range tip-sample interactions are reduced by optimizing the imaging buffer. Tapping mode AFM with high-resonance-frequency small and soft cantilevers, in combination with a high-speed AFM, reduces the forces due to feedback error and enables application of an average imaging force of tens of piconewtons. Using this approach, we have imaged the membrane organiza	2019	2	12	ACS Nano	ACS nano	ATP-synthase (ATPase); RC-LH1-PufX; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; chromatophores; high-speed AFM; light-harvesting 2 (LH2); native curved membranes; Bacterial Proteins; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Organelles; Particle Size; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kumar	Sandip
28063359	10.1016/j.biortech.2016.12.079	Photofermentative production of hydrogen and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate from dark fermentation products.	The aim of this work is to investigate the hydrogen and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) production during the photofermentative treatment of the effluent from a dark fermentation reactor fed with the organic fraction of municipal solid waste. Two different inocula, an adapted culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides AV1b and a mixed consortium of purple non sulphur bacteria have been investigated under the same operational conditions. Different hydrogen productivities of 364 and 559NmL H2 L<sup>-1</sup> were observed for the Rhodobacter sphaeroides and the mixed culture consortium tests, respectively: the consortium of PNSB resulted 1.5-fold more productive than the pure culture. On the other hand, Rhodobacter sphaeroides culture showed a higher PHB productivity (155mg PHB g COD<sup>-1</sup>) than the mixed culture (55mg PHB g COD<sup>-1</sup>). In all the tests, the concomitant H2 and PHB production was associated to a dissolved COD removal higher than 80%.	2017	2	21	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; Biorefinery; Dark fermentation; Photofermentation; Poly-..-hydroxybutyrate; Bioreactors; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydroxybutyrates; Polyesters; Refuse Disposal; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solid Waste	Luongo	Vincenzo
28008852	10.7554/eLife.20640	Modularity and determinants of a (bi-)polarization control system from free-living and obligate intracellular bacteria.	Although free-living and obligate intracellular bacteria are both polarized it is unclear whether the underlying polarization mechanisms and effector proteins are conserved. Here we dissect at the cytological, functional and structural level a conserved polarization module from the free living ..-proteobacterium Caulobacter crescentus and an orthologous system from an obligate intracellular (rickettsial) pathogen. The NMR solution structure of the zinc-finger (ZnR) domain from the bifunctional and bipolar ZitP pilus assembly/motility regulator revealed conserved interaction determinants for PopZ, a bipolar matrix protein that anchors the ParB centromere-binding protein and other regulatory factors at the poles. We show that ZitP regulates cytokinesis and the localization of ParB and PopZ, targeting PopZ independently of the previously known binding sites for its client proteins. Through heterologous localization assays with rickettsial ZitP and PopZ orthologs, we document the sh	2017	10	10	Elife	eLife	Caulobacter crescentus; E. coli; PopZ; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rickettsia massiliae; ZitP; cell biology; chromosomes; genes; polarity; ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters; Bacterial Proteins; Cation Transport Proteins; Caulobacter crescentus; Cell Polarity; Cytokinesis; Protein Binding; Protein Multimerization; Protein Transport; Rickettsia	Berg..	Matthieu
27902845	10.1002/jobm.201600580	Cloning and heterologous expression of chlorophyll a synthase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a purple non-sulfur bacterium which photoheterotrophically produces hydrogen from organic acids under anaerobic conditions. A gene coding for putative chlorophyll a synthase (chlG) from cyanobacterium Prochlorococcus marinus was amplified by nested polymerase chain reaction and cloned into an inducible-expression plasmid which was subsequently transferred to R. sphaeroides for heterologous expression. Induced expression of chlG in R. sphaeroides led to changes in light absorption spectrum within 400-700...nm. The hydrogen production capacity of the mutant strain was evaluated on hydrogen production medium with 15...mM malate and 2...mM glutamate. Hydrogen yield and productivity were increased by 13.6 and 22.6%, respectively, compared to the wild type strain. The results demonstrated the feasibility of genetic engineering to combine chlorophyll and bacteriochlorophyll biosynthetic pathways which utilize common intermediates. Heterologous expression of key enzy	2017	3	28	J Basic Microbiol	Journal of basic microbiology	Chlorophyll a synthase; Prochlorococcus marinus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; hydrogen production; photosynthesis; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carbon-Oxygen Ligases; Chlorophyll; Chlorophyll A; Cloning, Molecular; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Engineering; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen; Malates; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Prochlorococcus; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ipeko..lu	Emre M
27871369	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2016.10.005	CO<sub>2</sub> reduction and organic compounds production by photosynthetic bacteria with surface displayed carbonic anhydrase and inducible expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase.	In Rhodobacter sphaeroides, carbonic anhydrase (CA; EC 4.2.1.1) is a zinc-containing metalloenzyme that catalyzes the reversible hydration of CO2 to HCO3<sup>-</sup> while phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC; 4.1.1.31), an enzyme involved in the carbon metabolism that catalyzed the fixation of CO2 to PEP, is a key factor for biological fixation of CO2 and enhances the production of organic compounds. In this study, the recombinant R. sphaeroides with highly-expressed CA was developed based on a surface displayed system of CA (pJY-OmpCA) on the outer membrane of R. sphaeroides using outer membrane protein (Omp) in R. sphaeroides, Finally, two more different recombinant R. sphaeroides were developed, which transformed with a two-vector system harboring cytosolic expressed CA (pJY-OmpCA-CA)or PEPC (pJY-OMPCA-PEPC) in R. sphaeroides with surface displayed CA on the outer membrane. In case of recombinant R. sphaeroides with the pJY-OmpCA-PEPC, i	2017	5	30	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	CO(2) reduction; Carbonic anhydrase; Organic compounds production; Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase; Surface displayed CA; Carbon Dioxide; Carbonic Anhydrases; Cell Membrane; Cell Surface Display Techniques; Hydroxybutyrates; Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxylase; Photosynthesis; Polyesters; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Park	Ju-Yong
27854005	10.1007/s11120-016-0322-2	New insights into the photochemistry of carotenoid spheroidenone in light-harvesting complex 2 from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) from the semi-aerobically grown purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was studied using optical (static and time-resolved) and resonance Raman spectroscopies. This antenna complex comprises bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a and the carotenoid spheroidenone, a ketolated derivative of spheroidene. The results indicate that the spheroidenone-LH2 complex contains two spectral forms of the carotenoid: (1) a minor, "blue" form with an S2 (1<sup>1</sup>B u<sup>+</sup> ) spectral origin band at 522..nm, shifted from the position in organic media simply by the high polarizability of the binding site, and (2) the major, "red" form with the origin band at 562..nm that is associated with a pool of pigments that more strongly interact with protein residues, most likely via hydrogen bonding. Application of targeted modeling of excited-state decay pathways after carotenoid excitation suggests that the high (92%) carotenoid-to-BChl ener	2017	3	3	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Carotenoids; Energy transfer; Light-harvesting complex; Purple bacteria; Ultrafast spectroscopy; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Niedzwiedzki	Dariusz M
27838838	10.1007/s00253-016-7977-7	Inhibited growth of Clostridium butyricum in efficient H<sub>2</sub>-producing co-culture with Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Cell number of Clostridium butyricum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides in co-culture was measured using q-PCR approach. During efficient H2 photoproduction from starch (6.2..mol H2/mol glucose), Clostridia growth and starch-hydrolyzing activity was partly suppressed. Apparently, the effect of R. sphaeroides towards C. butyricum was not attributed to altered Eh or pH values in the presence of purple bacteria. Further, disk-diffusion test proved that R. sphaeroides was capable of producing inhibitors against another purple bacterium, Rhodospirillum rubrum, but not against C. butyricum. We suggested that at initial cell number ratio C. butyricum:R. sphaeroides 1:1 purple bacteria outcompeted C. butyricum for yeast extract at its low concentration (80..mg/L). Under these conditions, the H2 yield was rather high (5.7..mol/mol). When the yeast extract concentration increased to 320..mg/L, this process was replaced by the low-yield H2 productio	2017	1	24	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Clostridia; Co-culture; Competition; Growth inhibition; Purple bacteria; Antibiosis; Bacterial Load; Clostridium butyricum; Coculture Techniques; Culture Media; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Starch	Laurinavichene	Tatyana
27827356	10.1107/S2053230X16016927	Structural characterization of the thermostable Bradyrhizobium japonicumD-sorbitol dehydrogenase.	Bradyrhizobium japonicum sorbitol dehydrogenase is NADH-dependent and is active at elevated temperatures. The best substrate is D-glucitol (a synonym for D-sorbitol), although L-glucitol is also accepted, giving it particular potential in industrial applications. Crystallization led to a hexagonal crystal form, with crystals diffracting to 2.9..... resolution. In attempts to phase the data, a molecular-replacement solution based upon PDB entry 4nbu (33% identical in sequence to the target) was found. The solution contained one molecule in the asymmetric unit, but a tetramer similar to that found in other short-chain dehydrogenases, including the search model, could be reconstructed by applying crystallographic symmetry operations. The active site contains electron density consistent with D-glucitol and phosphate, but there was not clear evidence for the binding of NADH. In a search for the features that determine the thermostability of the enzyme, the Tm for the orthologue f	2017	11	27	Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun	Acta crystallographica. Section F, Structural biology communications	glucitol; sorbitol dehydrogenase; thermostability; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Bradyrhizobium; Catalytic Domain; Cloning, Molecular; Crystallography, X-Ray; Enzyme Stability; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Hot Temperature; L-Iditol 2-Dehydrogenase; Models, Molecular; Plasmids; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical; Protein Conformation, beta-Strand; Protein Multimerization; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sorbitol; Substrate Specificity; Thermodynamics	Fredslund	Folmer
27810246	10.1016/j.biortech.2016.10.060	Hydrogen production from starch by co-culture of Clostridium acetobutylicum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides in one step hybrid dark- and photofermentation in repeated fed-batch reactor.	Hydrogen production from starch by a co-culture hybrid dark and photofermentation under repeated fed-batch conditions at different organic loading rates (OLR) was studied. Effective cooperation between bacteria in co-culture during initial days was observed at controlled pH 7.0. However, at pH above 6.5 dark fermentation phase was redirected from H2 formation towards production of formic acid, lactic acid and ethanol (which are not coupled with hydrogen production) with simultaneous lower starch removal efficiency. This resulted in decrease in the hydrogen production rate. The highest H2 production in co-culture process (3.23LH2/Lmedium - after 11days) was achieved at OLR of 1.5gstarch/L/day, and it was twofold higher than for dark fermentation process (1.59LH2/Lmedium). The highest H2 yield in the co-culture (2.62molH2/molhexose) was obtained at the OLR of 0.375gstarch</s	2017	2	27	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; Co-culture dark and photofermentation; Repeated fed-batch; Starch; Bioreactors; Clostridium acetobutylicum; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Starch	Zagrodnik	R
27802301	10.1371/journal.pone.0165694	The Conserved Dcw Gene Cluster of R. sphaeroides Is Preceded by an Uncommonly Extended 5' Leader Featuring the sRNA UpsM.	Cell division and cell wall synthesis mechanisms are similarly conserved among bacteria. Consequently some bacterial species have comparable sets of genes organized in the dcw (division and cell wall) gene cluster. Dcw genes, their regulation and their relative order within the cluster are outstandingly conserved among rod shaped and gram negative bacteria to ensure an efficient coordination of growth and division. A well studied representative is the dcw gene cluster of E. coli. The first promoter of the gene cluster (mraZ1p) gives rise to polycistronic transcripts containing a 38 nt long 5' UTR followed by the first gene mraZ. Despite reported conservation we present evidence for a much longer 5' UTR in the gram negative and rod shaped bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and in the family of Rhodobacteraceae. This extended 268 nt long 5' UTR comprises a Rho independent terminator, which in case of termination gives rise to a non-coding RNA (UpsM). This sRNA is conditionally cleaved by 	2017	6	28	PLoS One	PloS one	5' Untranslated Regions; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Multigene Family; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Weber	Lennart
27718418	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2016.09.040	Comparative effects of Ni(II) and Cu(II) ions and their combinations on redox potential and hydrogen photoproduction by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The aim of the present work was the study of comparative effects of Cu(II) and Ni(II) and their mixture on growth, redox potential, hydrogen (H2) yield and ATPase activity in phototrophic purple bacteria R. sphaeroides MDC6522 from Jermuk mineral spring in Armenia. It was ascertained, that Cu<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup> have different effects on bacterial specific growth rate: in the presence of 5..M Cu<sup>2+</sup> growth rate was ~3.2-fold lower in comparison with control (no addition), and increased ~1.5-fold in medium with 5..M Ni<sup>2+</sup>. These changes may be resulted by action of the ions on redox potential (Eh). Low concentrations of Ni<sup>2+</sup> had an enhancing effect on the Eh drop and H2 production. The increase of concentration from 1 to 5..M enhanced the stimulatory effect of Ni<sup>2+</sup>. H2 yield in R. sphaeroides (72h of growth) was enhanced ~3-fold with 5..M Ni<sup>2+</sup>, whereas in the presence 	2017	3	27	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	ATPase activity; H(2) photoproduction; Heavy metal ions; Redox potential; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Copper; Hydrogen; Nickel; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gabrielyan	Lilit
27664317	10.1016/j.bbabio.2016.09.009	The unusual redox properties of C-type oxidases.	Cytochrome cbb3 (also known as C-type) oxidases belong to the family of heme-copper terminal oxidases which couple at the end of the respiratory chain the reduction of molecular oxygen into water and the pumping of protons across the membrane. They are expressed most often at low pressure of O2 and they exhibit a low homology of sequence with the cytochrome aa3 (A-type) oxidases found in mitochondria. Their binuclear active site comprises a high-spin heme b3 associated with a CuB center. The protein also contains one low-spin heme b and 3 hemes c. We address here the redox properties of cbb3 oxidases from three organisms, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Vibrio cholerae and Pseudomonas stutzeri by means of electrochemical and spectroscopic techniques. We show that the redox potential of the heme b3 exhibits a relatively low midpoint potential, as in related cytochrome c-dependent nitric oxide reductases. Potential imp	2017	8	7	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Heme-heme interaction; Membrane proteins; Potentiometric titrations; Protein film voltammetry; Terminal oxidases; Bacterial Proteins; Cytochrome-c Peroxidase; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Heme; Hydrogen Bonding; Ligands; Membrane Potentials; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxidoreductases; Oxygen; Potentiometry; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protons; Pseudomonas stutzeri; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Structure-Activity Relationship; Vibrio cholerae	Melin	Frederic
27649453	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2016.09.009	Purple-bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers and quantum-dot hybrid-assemblies in lecithin liposomes and thin films.	Quantum dots (QDs) absorb ultraviolet and long-wavelength visible light energy much more efficiently than natural bacterial light-harvesting proteins and can transfer the excitation energy to photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). Inclusion of RCs combined with QDs as antennae into liposomes opens new opportunities for using such hybrid systems as a basis for artificial energy-transforming devices that potentially can operate with greater efficiency and stability than devices based only on biological components or inorganic components alone. RCs from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and QDs (CdSe/ZnS with hydrophilic covering) were embedded in lecithin liposomes by extrusion of a solution of multilayer lipid vesicles through a polycarbonate membrane or by dialysis of lipids and proteins dispersed with excess detergent. The efficiency of RC and QD interaction within the liposomes was estimated using fluorescence excitation spectra of the photoactive bacteriochlorophyll of the RCs and by measurin	2017	3	17	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Fluorescence; Hybrid complexes; Lecithin liposomes; Light-harvesting; Pigment...protein complexes; Quantum dots; Reaction centers; Electrophoresis, Agar Gel; Lecithins; Liposomes; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Quantum Dots	Lukashev	Eugeny P
27328641	10.1111/jam.13208	Biocontrol activity and patulin-removal effects of Bacillus subtilis, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Agrobacterium tumefaciens against Penicillium expansum.	This study was conducted to evaluate the biocontrol potential of Bacillus subtilis CICC 10034, Rhodobacter sphaeroides CGMCC 1.2182 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens CGMCC 1.2554 against patulin (PAT)-producer Penicillium expansum and their ability to remove PAT. Bacillus subtilis effectively inhibited P...expansum both on apples and in in..vitro experiments, which reduced the rot diameter on apples by 38% compared with the control. The reduction was followed by those induced by A...tumefaciens (27..63%) and R...sphaeroides (23..67%). None of the cell-free supernatant (CFS) was able to prevent pathogen growth. Three antagonists could suppress PAT production by P...expansum on apples by 98..5, 93..7 and 94..99% after treatment with B...subtilis, R...sphaeroides and A...tumefaciens respectively. In addition, the three strains led to a 0..56-1..47..log..CFU..g<sup>-1</sup> reduction in colony number of P...expansum on apples. Survival of antagonists on apple wounds revealed their tolerance to	2017	4	13	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Agrobacterium tumefacien; Bacillus subtilis; Penicillium expansum; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; biocontrol; patulin removal; Agrobacterium tumefaciens; Bacillus subtilis; Biological Control Agents; Fruit; Malus; Patulin; Penicillium; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	Y
27744350	10.1093/nar/gkw930	Engineering of temperature- and light-switchable Cas9 variants.	Sensory photoreceptors have enabled non-invasive and spatiotemporal control of numerous biological processes. Photoreceptor engineering has expanded the repertoire beyond natural receptors, but to date no generally applicable strategy exists towards constructing light-regulated protein actuators of arbitrary function. We hence explored whether the homodimeric Rhodobacter sphaeroides light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) domain (RsLOV) that dissociates upon blue-light exposure can confer light sensitivity onto effector proteins, via a mechanism of light-induced functional site release. We chose the RNA-guided programmable DNA endonuclease Cas9 as proof-of-principle effector, and constructed a comprehensive library of RsLOV inserted throughout the Cas9 protein. Screening with a high-throughput assay based on transcriptional repression in Escherichia coli yielded paRC9, a moderately light-activatable variant. As domain insertion can lead to protein destabilization, we also screened the library for t	2017	6	6	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Amino Acid Sequence; DNA Cleavage; Endonucleases; Flow Cytometry; Gene Expression; Genetic Variation; High-Throughput Screening Assays; Light; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Richter	Florian
27739235	10.1111/febs.13924	Rhodobacter sphaeroides CryB is a bacterial cryptochrome with (6-4) photolyase activity.	Photolyases are efficient DNA repair enzymes that specifically repair either cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers or (6-4) photoproducts in a light-dependent cleavage reaction. The closely related classical cryptochrome blue light photoreceptors do not repair DNA lesions; instead they are involved in regulatory processes. CryB of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was until now described as a cryptochrome that affects light-dependent and singlet oxygen-dependent gene expression and is unusual in terms of its cofactor composition. Here we present evidence for a repair activity of (6-4) photoproducts by CryB and suggest a dual character combining the functions of cryptochromes and photolyases. We investigated the effects of crucial amino acids involved in cofactor or DNA lesion binding on the light-dependent recovery of cells after UV light exposure (in vivo photoreactivation). Remarkably, impairment of one of the two light absorbing cofactors, FAD or 6,7-dimethyl-8-ribityllumazine, only marginally affect	2017	7	10	FEBS J	The FEBS journal	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; DNA repair; cryptochrome; iron-sulfur protein; photolyase; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Biocatalysis; Blotting, Western; Cryptochromes; DNA Repair; Deoxyribodipyrimidine Photo-Lyase; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Kinetics; Microbial Viability; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Domains; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Ultraviolet Rays	von Zadow	Andrea
27730524	10.1007/s13361-016-1514-x	Electron-Transfer Secondary Reaction Matrices for MALDI MS Analysis of Bacteriochlorophyll a in Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Its Zinc and Copper Analogue Pigments.	Bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a), a photosynthetic pigment performing the same functions of chlorophylls in plants, features a bacteriochlorin macrocycle ring (18 .. electrons) with two reduced pyrrole rings along with a hydrophobic terpenoid side chain (i.e., the phytol residue). Chlorophylls analysis by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI MS) is not so straightforward since pheophytinization (i.e., release of the central metal ion) and cleavage of the phytol-ester linkage are invariably observed by employing protonating matrices such as 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, sinapinic acid, and ..-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid. Using BChl a from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 strain as a model system, different electron-transfer (ET) secondary reaction matrices, leading to the formation of almost stable radical ions in both positive ([M]<sup>+...</sup>) and negative ([M]<sup>-...</sup>) ionization modes at m/z 910.55, were evaluated. Compared with ET matrices such as t	2019	6	24	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron-transfer matrices; MALDI; Mass spectrometry; Tandem MS; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Copper; Electron Transport; Electrons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization; Zinc	Calvano	Cosima Damiana
27689237	10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b02661	Strong Coupling of Localized Surface Plasmons to Excitons in Light-Harvesting Complexes.	Gold nanostructure arrays exhibit surface plasmon resonances that split after attaching light harvesting complexes 1 and 2 (LH1 and LH2) from purple bacteria. The splitting is attributed to strong coupling between the localized surface plasmon resonances and excitons in the light-harvesting complexes. Wild-type and mutant LH1 and LH2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing different carotenoids yield different splitting energies, demonstrating that the coupling mechanism is sensitive to the electronic states in the light harvesting complexes. Plasmon-exciton coupling models reveal different coupling strengths depending on the molecular organization and the protein coverage, consistent with strong coupling. Strong coupling was also observed for self-assembling polypeptide maquettes that contain only chlorins. However, it is not observed for monolayers of bacteriochlorophyll, indicating that strong plasmon-exciton coupling is sensitive to the specific presentation of the pigment molecule	2018	8	29	Nano Lett	Nano letters	Strong coupling; light harvesting complexes; photosynthesis; plasmonic nanoparticles; purple bacteria	Tsargorodska	Anna
27669425	10.1371/journal.pone.0163425	Characteristics of Pos19 - A Small Coding RNA in the Oxidative Stress Response of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides induces several small RNAs (sRNAs) when singlet oxygen (1O2) levels are elevated, a situation also referred to as photo-oxidative stress. An RNA-seq study identified the RSs0019 sRNA, which is renamed Pos19 (photo-oxidative stress induced sRNA 19). Pos19 is part of the RpoE regulon and consequently induced upon 1O2 and peroxide stress. The 219 nt long Pos19 transcript contains a small open reading frame (sORF) of 150 nt, which is translated in vivo. Over-expression of Pos19 results in reduced mRNA levels for several genes, of which numerous are involved in sulfur metabolism. The negative effect on the potential targets is maintained even when translation of the sORF is abolished, arguing that regulation is entailed by the sRNA itself. Reporter studies further revealed that regulation of the most affected mRNA, namely RSP_0557, by Pos19 is Hfq-dependent. Direct binding of Pos19 to Hfq was shown by co-immunoprecipitation. Physiological e	2019	11	20	PLoS One	PloS one	NA	M..ller	Katrin M H
27639525	10.1016/j.ultsonch.2016.09.007	Effect of ultrasound on the function and structure of a membrane protein: The case study of photosynthetic Reaction Center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Ultrasounds are used in many industrial, medical and research applications. Properties and function of proteins are strongly influenced by the interaction with the ultrasonic waves and their bioactivity can be lost because of alteration of protein structure. Surprisingly, to the best of our knowledge no study was carried out on Integral Membrane Proteins (IMPs), which are responsible for a variety of fundamental biological functions. In this work, the photosynthetic Reaction Center (RC) of the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been used as a model for the study of the ultrasound-induced IMP denaturation. Purified RCs were suspended in i) detergent micelles, in ii) detergent-free buffer and iii) reconstituted in liposomes, and then treated with ultrasound at 30W and 20kHz at increasing times. The optical absorption spectra showed a progressive and irreversible denaturation in all cases, resulting from the perturbation of the protein scaffold structure, as confirmed by circular dichr	2018	7	23	Ultrason Sonochem	Ultrasonics sonochemistry	Denaturation; Integral membrane proteins; Reaction Center; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ultrasound; Buffers; Dimethylamines; Kinetics; Micelles; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Aggregates; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sonication; Surface-Active Agents	De Leo	Vincenzo
27564854	10.7554/eLife.09541	Overall energy conversion efficiency of a photosynthetic vesicle.	The chromatophore of purple bacteria is an intracellular spherical vesicle that exists in numerous copies in the cell and that efficiently converts sunlight into ATP synthesis, operating typically under low light conditions. Building on an atomic-level structural model of a low-light-adapted chromatophore vesicle from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we investigate the cooperation between more than a hundred protein complexes in the vesicle. The steady-state ATP production rate as a function of incident light intensity is determined after identifying quinol turnover at the cytochrome bc1 complex (cytb...c1) as rate limiting and assuming that the quinone/quinol pool of about 900 molecules acts in a quasi-stationary state. For an illumination condition equivalent to 1% of full sunlight, the vesicle exhibits an ATP production rate of 82 ATP molecules/s. The energy conversion efficiency of ATP synthesis at illuminations corresponding to 1%-5% of full sunlight is calculated to be 0.12-0.04, respect	2017	10	2	Elife	eLife	ATP production; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacterial photosynthesis; biophysics; computational biology; energy conversion efficiency; excitation transfer; structural biology; systems biology; Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Chromatophores; Energy Metabolism; Hydroquinones; Light; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sener	Melih
27514285	10.1016/j.bbabio.2016.08.001	Spectral and kinetic effects accompanying the assembly of core complexes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the present work, spectral and kinetic changes accompanying the assembly of the light-harvesting 1 (LH1) complex with the reaction center (RC) complex into monomeric RC-LH1 and dimeric RC-LH1-PufX core complexes of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides are systematically studied over the temperature range of 4.5-300K. The samples were interrogated with a combination of optical absorption, hole burning, fluorescence excitation, steady state and picosecond time resolved fluorescence spectroscopy. Fair additivity of the LH1 and RC absorption spectra suggests rather weak electronic coupling between them. A low-energy tail revealed at cryogenic temperatures in the absorption spectra of both monomeric and dimeric core complexes is proved to be due to the special pair of the RC. At selected excitation intensity and temperature, the fluorescence decay time of core complexes is shown to be a function of multiple factors, most importantly of the presence/absence of RCs, 	2017	6	26	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Excitation energy transfer; Exciton; Light-harvesting; Photosynthesis; Spectroscopy; Bacterial Proteins; Kinetics; Light; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Freiberg	Arvi
27508459	10.1021/jacs.6b01193	Binding Site Recognition and Docking Dynamics of a Single Electron Transport Protein: Cytochrome c2.	Small diffusible redox proteins facilitate electron transfer in respiration and photosynthesis by alternately binding to their redox partners and integral membrane proteins and exchanging electrons. Diffusive search, recognition, binding, and unbinding of these proteins often amount to kinetic bottlenecks in cellular energy conversion, but despite the availability of structures and intense study, the physical mechanisms controlling redox partner interactions remain largely unknown. The present molecular dynamics study provides an all-atom description of the cytochrome c2-docked bc1 complex in Rhodobacter sphaeroides in terms of an ensemble of favorable docking conformations and reveals an intricate series of conformational changes that allow cytochrome c2 to recognize the bc1 complex and bind or unbind in a redox state-dependent manner. In particular, the role of electron transfer in triggering a molecular switch and in altering water-mediated interface mobility, thereby strengthening 	2018	5	11	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	Binding Sites; Computer Simulation; Cytochromes c2; Electron Transport; Models, Chemical; Models, Molecular; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity	Singharoy	Abhishek
27506206	10.1007/s13361-016-1451-8	Native Mass Spectrometry Characterizes the Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex from the Purple Bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Native mass spectrometry (MS) is an emerging approach to study protein complexes in their near-native states and to elucidate their stoichiometry and topology. Here, we report a native MS study of the membrane-embedded reaction center (RC) protein complex from the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The membrane-embedded RC protein complex is stabilized by detergent micelles in aqueous solution, directly introduced into a mass spectrometer by nano-electrospray (nESI), and freed of detergents and dissociated in the gas phase by collisional activation. As the collision energy is increased, the chlorophyll pigments are gradually released from the RC complex, suggesting that native MS introduces a near-native structure that continues to bind pigments. Two bacteriochlorophyll a pigments remain tightly bound to the RC protein at the highest collision energy. The order of pigment release and their resistance to release by gas-phase activation indicates the strength of pig	2019	6	24	J Am Soc Mass Spectrom	Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry	Membrane protein complex; Native mass spectrometry; Photosynthesis; Pigment...protein interactions; Purple bacterium; Reaction center; Bacterial Proteins; Chlorophyll; Detergents; Micelles; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization	Zhang	Hao
27479839	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2016.07.039	Biohydrogen production by purple non-sulfur bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides: Effect of low-intensity electromagnetic irradiation.	The present work was focused on the effects of low-intensity (the flux capacity was of 0.06mWcm(-2)) electromagnetic irradiation (EMI) of extremely high frequencies or millimeter waves on the growth and hydrogen (H2) photoproduction by purple non-sulfur bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides MDC6521 (from Armenian mineral springs). After exposure of R. sphaeroides, grown under anaerobic conditions upon illumination, to EMI (51.8GHz and 53.0GHz) for 15min an increase of specific growth rate by ~1.2-fold, in comparison with control (non-irradiated cells), was obtained. However, the effect of EMI depends on the duration of irradiation: the exposure elongation up to 60min caused the delay of the growth lag phase and the decrease specific growth rate by ~1.3-fold, indicating the bactericidal effect of EMI. H2 yield of the culture, irradiated by EMI for 15min, determined during 72h growth, was ~1.2-fold higher than H2 yield of control cells, whereas H2 production by cultures, irradiated by EMI for	2017	3	2	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Electromagnetic irradiation; F(o)F(1)-ATPase; H(+) flux; H(2) production; Photofermentation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Wall; Electromagnetic Radiation; Hydrogen; Oxidation-Reduction; Proton-Translocating ATPases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gabrielyan	Lilit
27478991	10.1021/acs.biochem.6b00317	Electron Transfer in Bacterial Reaction Centers with the Photoactive Bacteriopheophytin Replaced by a Bacteriochlorophyll through Coordinating Ligand Substitution.	The influence of amino acid substitutions at position M214 (M-subunit, residue 214) on the rate and pathway of electron transfer involving the bacteriopheophytin cofactor, HA, in a bacterial photosynthetic reaction center has been explored in a series of Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutants. The M214 leucine (L) residue of the wild type was replaced with histidine (H), glutamine (Q), and asparagine (N), creating the mutants M214LH, M214LQ, and M214LN, respectively. As has been reported previously for M214LH, each of these mutations resulted in a bacteriochlorophyll molecule in place of a bacteriopheophytin in the HA pocket, forming so-called ..-type mutants (in which the HA cofactor is called ..A). In addition, these mutations changed the properties of the surrounding protein environment in terms of charge distribution and the amino acid side chain volume. Electron transfer reactions from the excited primary donor P to the acceptor QA were characterized using ultrafast transient absorption 	2017	5	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Ligands; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins	Pan	Jie
27471267	10.1128/JB.00480-16	Correction for de la Mora et al., Structural Characterization of the Fla2 Flagellum of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	NA	2019	11	20	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	NA	de la Mora	Javier
27471265	10.1128/JB.00479-16	Erratum for Osorio-Valeriano et al., Biochemical Characterization of the Flagellar Rod Components of Rhodobacter sphaeroides: Properties and Interactions.	NA	2019	11	20	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	NA	Osorio-Valeriano	Manuel
27468962	10.1007/s12104-016-9703-x	(1)H, (13)C and (15)N resonance assignments for the response regulator CheY3 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has emerged as a model system for studies of the complex chemotaxis pathways that are a hallmark of many non-enteric bacteria. The genome of R. sphaeroides encodes two sets of flagellar genes, fla1 and fla2, that are controlled by three different operons. Each operon encodes homologues of most of the proteins required for the well-studied E. coli chemotaxis pathway. R. sphaeroides has six homologues of the response regulator CheY that are localized to and are regulated by different clusters of chemosensory proteins in the cell and have different effects on chemotaxis. CheY6 is the major CheY stopping the fla1 flagellar motor and associated with a cytoplasmically localised chemosensory pathway. CheY3 and CheY4 are associated with a membrane localised polar chemosensory cluster, and can bind to but not stop the motor. CheY6 and either CheY3 or CheY4 are required for chemotaxis. We are using NMR spectroscopy to characterise and compare the structure and dynamics of	2017	10	24	Biomol NMR Assign	Biomolecular NMR assignments	CheY3; Chemotaxis; NMR resonance assignments; Response regulator; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Apoproteins; Bacterial Proteins; Magnesium; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Varela	Lorena
27458891	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b06151	Mutation-Induced Changes in the Protein Environment and Site Energies in the (M)L214G Mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Bacterial Reaction Center.	This work focuses on the low-temperature (5 K) photochemical (transient) hole-burned (HB) spectra within the P870 absorption band, and their theoretical analysis, for the (M)L214G mutant of the photosynthetic Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacterial reaction center (bRC). To provide insight into system-bath interactions of the bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) special pair, i.e., P870, in the mutated bRC, the optical line shape function for the P870 band is calculated numerically. On the basis of the modeling studies, we demonstrate that (M)L214G mutation leads to a heterogeneous population of bRCs with modified (increased) total electron-phonon coupling strength of the special pair BChl a and larger inhomogeneous broadening. Specifically, we show that after mutation in the (M)L214G bRC a large fraction (...50%) of the bacteriopheophytin (HA) chromophores shifts red and the 800 nm absorption band broadens, while the remaining fraction of HA cofactors retains nearly the same site energy as HA in 	2018	4	23	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Computer Simulation; Electrons; Ferricyanides; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Jankowiak	Ryszard
27420112	10.1080/15476286.2016.1212152	Regulation of a polyamine transporter by the conserved 3' UTR-derived sRNA SorX confers resistance to singlet oxygen and organic hydroperoxides in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Singlet oxygen is generated by bacteriochlorophylls when light and oxygen are simultaneously present in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Singlet oxygen triggers a specific response that is partly regulated by the alternative sigma factor RpoHI/HII. The sRNA RSs2461 has previously been identified as an RpoHI/HII-dependent sRNA and is derived from the 3' UTR of the mRNA for an OmpR-type transcriptional regulator. Similar to the RpoHI/HII-dependent CcsR and SorY sRNAs, RSs2461 affects the resistance of R. sphaeroides against singlet oxygen and was therefore renamed here SorX. Furthermore, SorX has a strong impact on resistance against organic hydroperoxides that usually occur as secondary damages downstream of singlet oxygen. The 75-nt SorX 3' fragment, which is generated by RNase E cleavage and highly conserved among related species, represents the functional entity. A target search identified potA mRNA, which encodes a subunit of a polyamine transporter, as a direct SorX target and stress resis	2017	10	11	RNA Biol	RNA biology	3... UTR-derived; Hfq; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; organic hydroperoxide; polyamine transporter; potA; singlet oxygen; small RNA; 3' Untranslated Regions; Bacterial Proteins; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidative Stress; Peroxides; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Singlet Oxygen; Spermidine	Peng	Tao
27398977	10.1016/j.bioelechem.2016.06.005	Kinetics of cytochrome c oxidase from R. sphaeroides initiated by direct electron transfer followed by tr-SEIRAS.	Time-resolved surface-enhanced IR-absorption spectroscopy (tr-SEIRAS) has been performed on cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The enzyme was converted electrochemically into the fully reduced state. Thereafter, in the presence of oxygen, the potential was switched to open circuit potential (OCP). Under these conditions, the enzyme is free to undergo enzymatic oxidation in the absence of an external electric field. Tr-SEIRAS was performed using the step-scan technique, triggered by periodic potential pulses switching between - 800mV and OCP. Single bands were resolved in a broad band in the amide I region using phase sensitive detection. Amplitudes of these bands were analyzed as a function of time. Time constants in the ms time scale were considered in terms of conformational changes of the protein secondary structures associated with the enzymatic turnover of the protein. 	2017	1	26	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Conformational transitions; Cytochrome c oxidase; Electrochemically modulated spectroscopy; Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy; Membrane proteins; Surface-enhanced infrared-absorption spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Immobilized Proteins; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared	Steininger	Christoph
27396664	10.2116/analsci.32.801	Determination of the Molar Extinction Coefficients of the B800 and B850 Absorption Bands in Light-harvesting Complexes 2 Derived from Three Purple Photosynthetic Bacteria Rhodoblastus acidophilus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Phaeospirillum molischianum by Extraction of Bacteriochlorophyll a.	The molar extinction coefficients of light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) have been ambiguous in spite of its fame and wide utilization. Herein we determine the molar extinction coefficients of the LH2 proteins derived from the three purple photosynthetic bacteria Rhodoblastus acidophilus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Phaeospirillum molischianum at 298 K by direct extraction of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a from the lyophilized proteins, followed by estimation of BChl a amounts from their electronic absorption spectra. 	2018	1	29	Anal Sci	Analytical sciences : the international journal of the Japan Society for Analytical Chemistry	Absorption, Physicochemical; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Chromatography, Gel; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillaceae; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet	Saga	Yoshitaka
27368166	10.1007/s11120-016-0290-6	Bacteriopheophytin triplet state in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	It is well established that photoexcitation of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers (RC) with reduced quinone acceptors results in the formation of a triplet state localized on the primary electron donor P with a significant yield. The energy of this long-lived and therefore potentially damaging excited state is then efficiently quenched by energy transfer to the RC spheroidenone carotenoid, with its subsequent decay to the ground state by intersystem crossing. In this contribution, we present a detailed transient absorption study of triplet states in a set of mutated RCs characterized by different efficiencies of triplet formation that correlate with lifetimes of the initial charge-separated state P(+)H A (-) . On a microsecond time scale, two types of triplet state were detected: in addition to the well-known spheroidenone triplet state with a lifetime of ~4 ..s, in some RCs we discovered a bacteriopheophytin triplet state with a lifetime of ~40 ..s. As expected, the yield of the	2017	2	23	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriopheophytin; Carotenoid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spheroidenone; Triplet; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Oxygen; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bia..ek	Rafa..
27325485	10.1038/ncomms11846	Structural basis for the recognition of guide RNA and target DNA heteroduplex by Argonaute.	Argonaute proteins are key players in the gene silencing mechanisms mediated by small nucleic acids in all domains of life from bacteria to eukaryotes. However, little is known about the Argonaute protein that recognizes guide RNA/target DNA. Here, we determine the 2..... crystal structure of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Argonaute (RsAgo) in a complex with 18-nucleotide guide RNA and its complementary target DNA. The heteroduplex maintains Watson-Crick base-pairing even in the 3'-region of the guide RNA between the N-terminal and PIWI domains, suggesting a recognition mode by RsAgo for stable interaction with the target strand. In addition, the MID/PIWI interface of RsAgo has a system that specifically recognizes the 5' base-U of the guide RNA, and the duplex-recognition loop of the PAZ domain is important for the DNA silencing activity. Furthermore, we show that Argonaute discriminates the nucleic acid type (RNA/DNA) by recognition of the duplex structure of the seed region.	2018	9	12	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Argonaute Proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Base Pairing; Base Sequence; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; DNA; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Silencing; Models, Molecular; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Nucleic Acid Heteroduplexes; Protein Conformation; Protein Domains; Protein Interaction Maps; RNA, Guide; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Miyoshi	Tomohiro
27297026	10.1016/j.bbabio.2016.06.003	Effect of ionic strength on intra-protein electron transfer reactions: The case study of charge recombination within the bacterial reaction center.	It is a common believe that intra-protein electron transfer (ET) involving reactants and products that are overall electroneutral are not influenced by the ions of the surrounding solution. The results presented here show an electrostatic coupling between the ionic atmosphere surrounding a membrane protein (the reaction center (RC) from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides) and two very different intra-protein ET processes taking place within it. Specifically we have studied the effect of salt concentration on: i) the kinetics of the charge recombination between the reduced primary quinone acceptor QA(-) and the primary photoxidized donor P(+); ii) the thermodynamic equilibrium (QA(-)...QB(-)) for the ET between QA(-) and the secondary quinone acceptor QB. A distinctive point of this investigation is that reactants and products are overall electroneutral. The protein electrostatics has been described adopting the lowest level of complexity sufficient to grasp the experi	2017	10	3	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	Charge recombination; Hofmeister series, Debye screening length; Intra-protein electron transfer; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Electron Transport; Osmolar Concentration; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Static Electricity; Thermodynamics	Giustini	Mauro
27285777	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b03305	Quenching Capabilities of Long-Chain Carotenoids in Light-Harvesting-2 Complexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with an Engineered Carotenoid Synthesis Pathway.	Six light-harvesting-2 complexes (LH2) from genetically modified strains of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides were studied using static and ultrafast optical methods and resonance Raman spectroscopy. These strains were engineered to incorporate carotenoids for which the number of conjugated groups (N = NC...C + NC...O) varies from 9 to 15. The Rb. sphaeroides strains incorporate their native carotenoids spheroidene (N = 10) and spheroidenone (N = 11), as well as longer-chain analogues including spirilloxanthin (N = 13) and diketospirilloxantion (N = 15) normally found in Rhodospirillum rubrum. Measurements of the properties of the carotenoid first singlet excited state (S1) in antennas from the Rb. sphaeroides set show that carotenoid-bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) interactions are similar to those in LH2 complexes from various other bacterial species and thus are not significantly impacted by differences in polypeptide composition. Instead, variations i	2018	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Quantum Theory; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrum Analysis, Raman	Dilbeck	Preston L
27285383	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2016.05.056	Photobiological transformation of hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) using Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Pump-and-treat strategies for groundwater containing explosives may be necessary when the contaminated water approaches sensitive receptors. This project investigated bacterial photosynthesis as a strategy for ex situ treatment, using light as the primary energy source to facilitate RDX transformation. The objective was to characterize the ability of photosynthetic Rhodobacter sphaeroides (strain ATCC(..) 17023 ...) to transform the high-energy explosive RDX. R...sphaeroides transformed 30....M RDX within 40..h under light conditions; RDX was not fully transformed in the dark (non-photosynthetic conditions), suggesting that photosynthetic electron transfer was the primary mechanism. Experiments with RDX demonstrated that succinate and malate were the most effective electron donors for photosynthesis, but glycerol was also utilized as a photosynthetic electron donor. RDX was transformed irrespective of the presence of carbon dioxide. The electron shuttling compound anthraquinone-2,6-dis	2017	3	6	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Biodegradation; Cyclic nitramine explosives; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Anthraquinones; Biodegradation, Environmental; Explosive Agents; Kinetics; Light; Malates; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic Acid; Triazines; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Millerick	Kayleigh A
27281845	10.1002/rcm.7503	Elucidation and identification of amino acid containing membrane lipids using liquid chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry.	Intact polar lipids (IPLs) are the building blocks of cell membranes, and amino acid containing IPLs have been observed to be involved in response to changing environmental conditions in various species of bacteria. High-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS) has become the primary method for analysis of IPLs. Many glycerol-free amino acid containing membrane lipids (AA-IPLs), which are structurally different than abundant aminophospholipids, have not been characterized using HPLC/MS. This results in many lipids remaining unrecognized in IPL analysis of microbial cultures and environmental samples, hampering the study of their occurrence and functionality. We analyzed the amino acid containing IPLs of a number of bacteria (i.e. Gluconobacter cerinus, Cyclobacterium marinus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Pedobacter heparinus) in order to decipher fragmentation pathways, and explore potential novel lipid structures using HPLC/electrospray ionization ion trap MS (HPL	2016	11	3	Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom	Rapid communications in mass spectrometry : RCM	Amino Acids; Bacteria; Chromatography, Liquid; Glutamine; Lysine; Membrane Lipids; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization	Moore	Eli K
27271854	10.1186/s11671-016-1502-x	The kinetic model for slow photoinduced electron transport in the reaction centers of purple bacteria.	The present work is related to the investigation of slow kinetics of electron transport in the reaction centers (RCs) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Experimental data on the absorption kinetics of aqueous solutions of reaction centers at different modes of photoexcitation are given. It is shown that the kinetics of oxidation and reduction of RCs are well described by the sum of three exponential functions. This allows to suggest a two-level kinetic model for electron transport in the RC as a system of four electron-conformational states which correspond to three balance differential equations combined with state equation. The solution of inverse problem made it possible to obtain the rate constant values in kinetic equations for different times and intensities of exciting light. Analysis of rate constant values in different modes of RC excitation allowed to suggest that two mechanisms of structural changes are involved in RC photo-oxidation. One mechanism leads to the increment of the rat	2016	6	9	Nanoscale Res Lett	Nanoscale research letters	Electron-conformational states of biological macromolecules; Photoinduced electron transport; Purple bacteria; Reaction center; Two-level kinetic model	Serdenko	T V
27266271	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b02595	Band Structure of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Photosynthetic Reaction Center from Low-Temperature Absorption and Hole-Burned Spectra.	Persistent/transient spectral hole burning (HB) and computer simulations are used to provide new insight into the excitonic structure and excitation energy transfer of the widely studied bacterial reaction center (bRC) of Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides. We focus on site energies of its cofactors and electrochromic shifts induced in the chemically oxidized (P(+)) and charge-separated (P(+)QM(-)) states. Theoretical models lead to two alternative interpretations of the H-band. On the basis of our experimental and simulation data, we suggest that the bleach near 813-825 nm in transient HB spectra in the P(+)QM(-) state, often assigned to the upper exciton component of the special pair, is mostly due to different electrochromic shifts of the BL/M cofactors. From the exciton compositions in the charge-neutral (CN) bRC, the weak fourth excitonic band near 780 nm can be denoted PY+, that is, the upper excitonic band of the special pair, which in the CN bRC behaves as a delocalized state over P	2018	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Energy Transfer; Light; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Rancova	Olga
27260397	10.1134/S0006297916020115	3-Acetyl-Chlorophyll Formation in Light-Harvesting Complexes of Purple Bacteria by Chemical Oxidation.	Dedicated to the memory of Yuriy Nikolayevich Kozlov Oxidation of bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) with potassium ferricyanide in membranes and LH2 complexes (carotenoid-less and control samples) from the purple bacteria Allochromatium minutissimum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides as well as BChl photobleaching in a model system have been studied. The oxidation of BChl depended on the type of bacteria. BChl850 was rapidly oxidized in samples from Alc. minutissimum, and BChl800 and BChl850 were slowly oxidized in samples from Rb. sphaeroides. The carotenoids were not involved in protecting BChl from chemical oxidation in the light-harvesting complexes. The appearance of BChl oxidation product was registered in the absorption spectra (absorption maximum about 700..nm) and by HPLC analysis. The oxidized BChl was identified as 3-acetyl-chlorophyll. It differed from BChl by the presence of a double bond in pyrrole ring II at the 7-8 position. The extinction coefficient of 3-acetyl-chlorophyll was abou	2017	1	16	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacteriochlorophylls; Ferricyanides; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Spectrum Analysis	Makhneva	Z K
27247413	10.1073/pnas.1517520113	Structural insight into photoactivation of an adenylate cyclase from a photosynthetic cyanobacterium.	Cyclic-AMP is one of the most important second messengers, regulating many crucial cellular events in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, and precise spatial and temporal control of cAMP levels by light shows great promise as a simple means of manipulating and studying numerous cell pathways and processes. The photoactivated adenylate cyclase (PAC) from the photosynthetic cyanobacterium Oscillatoria acuminata (OaPAC) is a small homodimer eminently suitable for this task, requiring only a simple flavin chromophore within a blue light using flavin (BLUF) domain. These domains, one of the most studied types of biological photoreceptor, respond to blue light and either regulate the activity of an attached enzyme domain or change its affinity for a repressor protein. BLUF domains were discovered through studies of photo-induced movements of Euglena gracilis, a unicellular flagellate, and gene expression in the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, but the precise details of light activatio	2017	1	26	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	X-ray crystallography; allostery; blue light; optogenetics; Adenylyl Cyclases; Bacterial Proteins; Cyclic AMP; Enzyme Activation; HEK293 Cells; Humans; Light; Oscillatoria; Protein Domains; Second Messenger Systems; Structure-Activity Relationship	Ohki	Mio
27245093	10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.6b00175	Synthetic Antenna Functioning As Light Harvester in the Whole Visible Region for Enhanced Hybrid Photosynthetic Reaction Centers.	The photosynthetic reaction center (RC) from the Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacterium has been covalently bioconjugated with a NIR-emitting fluorophore (AE800) whose synthesis was specifically tailored to act as artificial antenna harvesting light in the entire visible region. AE800 has a broad absorption spectrum with peaks centered in the absorption gaps of the RC and its emission overlaps the most intense RC absorption bands, ensuring a consistent increase of the protein optical cross section. The covalent hybrid AE800-RC is stable and fully functional. The energy collected by the artificial antenna is transferred to the protein via FRET mechanism, and the hybrid system outperforms by a noteworthy 30% the overall photochemical activity of the native protein under the entire range of visible light. This improvement in the optical characteristic of the photoenzyme demonstrates the effectiveness of the bioconjugation approach as a suitable route to new biohybrid materials for energy conve	2017	6	12	Bioconjug Chem	Bioconjugate chemistry	Energy Transfer; Fluorescent Dyes; Light; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hassan Omar	Omar
27243380	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b05082	Ultrafast Electron Transfer Kinetics in the LM Dimer of Bacterial Photosynthetic Reaction Center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	It has become increasingly clear that dynamics plays a major role in the function of many protein systems. One system that has proven particularly facile for studying the effects of dynamics on protein-mediated chemistry is the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Previous experimental and computational analysis have suggested that the dynamics of the protein matrix surrounding the primary quinone acceptor, QA, may be particularly important in electron transfer involving this cofactor. One can substantially increase the flexibility of this region by removing one of the reaction center subunits, the H-subunit. Even with this large change in structure, photoinduced electron transfer to the quinone still takes place. To evaluate the effect of H-subunit removal on electron transfer to QA, we have compared the kinetics of electron transfer and associated spectral evolution for the LM dimer with that of the intact reaction center complex on picosecond to mil	2018	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Subunits; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Sun	Chang
27232937	10.1021/acs.jpca.6b04146	Electronic Structure and Dynamics of Higher-Lying Excited States in Light Harvesting Complex 1 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Light harvesting in photosynthetic organisms involves efficient transfer of energy from peripheral antenna complexes to core antenna complexes, and ultimately to the reaction center where charge separation drives downstream photosynthetic processes. Antenna complexes contain many strongly coupled chromophores, which complicates analysis of their electronic structure. Two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy (2DES) provides information on energetic coupling and ultrafast energy transfer dynamics, making the technique well suited for the study of photosynthetic antennae. Here, we present 2DES results on excited state properties and dynamics of a core antenna complex, light harvesting complex 1 (LH1), embedded in the photosynthetic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The experiment reveals weakly allowed higher-lying excited states in LH1 at 770 nm, which transfer energy to the strongly allowed states at 875 nm with a lifetime of 40 fs. The presence of higher-lying excited states is in ag	2018	2	1	J Phys Chem A	The journal of physical chemistry. A	Cell Membrane; Electrons; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dahlberg	Peter D
27215788	10.1128/JB.00121-16	Absence of the cbb3 Terminal Oxidase Reveals an Active Oxygen-Dependent Cyclase Involved in Bacteriochlorophyll Biosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The characteristic green color associated with chlorophyll pigments results from the formation of an isocyclic fifth ring on the tetrapyrrole macrocycle during the biosynthesis of these important molecules. This reaction is catalyzed by two unrelated cyclase enzymes employing different chemistries. Oxygenic phototrophs such as plants and cyanobacteria utilize an oxygen-dependent enzyme, the major component of which is a diiron protein named AcsF, while BchE, an oxygen-sensitive [4Fe-4S] cluster protein, dominates in phototrophs inhabiting anoxic environments, such as the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides We identify a potential acsF in this organism and assay for activity of the encoded protein in a strain lacking bchE under various aeration regimes. Initially, cells lacking bchE did not demonstrate AcsF activity under any condition tested. However, on removal of a gene encoding a subunit of the cbb3-type respiratory terminal oxidase, cells cultured under regimes ra	2017	5	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Molecular Structure; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Chen	Guangyu E
27214134	10.1371/journal.pone.0155886	Structure of the Cellulose Synthase Complex of Gluconacetobacter hansenii at 23.4 .. Resolution.	Bacterial crystalline cellulose is used in biomedical and industrial applications, but the molecular mechanisms of synthesis are unclear. Unlike most bacteria, which make non-crystalline cellulose, Gluconacetobacter hansenii extrudes profuse amounts of crystalline cellulose. Its cellulose synthase (AcsA) exists as a complex with accessory protein AcsB, forming a 'terminal complex' (TC) that has been visualized by freeze-fracture TEM at the base of ribbons of crystalline cellulose. The catalytic AcsAB complex is embedded in the cytoplasmic membrane. The C-terminal portion of AcsC is predicted to form a translocation channel in the outer membrane, with the rest of AcsC possibly interacting with AcsD in the periplasm. It is thus believed that synthesis from an organized array of TCs coordinated with extrusion by AcsC and AcsD enable this bacterium to make crystalline cellulose. The only structural data that exist for this system are the above mentioned freeze-fracture TEM images, fluoresc	2017	7	10	PLoS One	PloS one	Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Cell Membrane; Cellulose; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Microscope Tomography; Gluconacetobacter; Glucosyltransferases; Models, Molecular; Multienzyme Complexes; Protein Conformation	Du	Juan
27206340	10.1007/s10529-016-2126-z	4-Vinylphenol production from glucose using recombinant Streptomyces mobaraense expressing a tyrosine ammonia lyase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	To find a novel host for the production of 4-vinylphenol (4VPh) by screening Streptomyces species. The conversion of p-coumaric acid (pHCA) to 4VPh in Streptomyces mobaraense was evaluated using a medium containing pHCA. S. mobaraense readily assimilated pHCA after 24..h of cultivation to produce 4VPh. A phenolic acid decarboxylase, derived from S. mobaraense (SmPAD), was purified following heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. SmPAD was evaluated under various conditions, and the enzyme's kcat/Km value was 0.54..mM (-1) s(-1). Using intergenetic conjugation, a gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides encoding a tyrosine ammonia lyase, which catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to p-coumaric acid, was introduced into S. mobaraense. The resulting S. mobaraense transformant produced 273..mg 4VPh l(-1) from 10..g glucose l(-1). A novel strain suitable for the production of 4VPh and potentially other aromatic compounds was isolated.	2017	2	22	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	4-Vinylphenol; Intergenetic conjugation; Phenolic acids; Streptomyces mobaraense; p-Coumaric acid; Ammonia-Lyases; Coumaric Acids; Glucose; Phenols; Propionates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Streptomyces	Fujiwara	Ryosuke
27179240	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2016.04.098	Bioremediation of lead contaminated soil with Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bioremediation with microorganisms is a promising technique for heavy metal contaminated soil. Rhodobacter sphaeroides was previously isolated from oil field injection water and used for bioremediation of lead (Pb) contaminated soil in the present study. Based on the investigation of the optimum culturing conditions and the tolerance to Pb, we employed the microorganism for the remediation of Pb contaminated soil simulated at different contamination levels. It was found that the optimum temperature, pH, and inoculum size for R...sphaeroides is 30-35....C, 7, and 2......10(8)..mL(-1), respectively. Rhodobacter sphaeroides did not remove the Pb from soil but did change its speciation. During the bioremediation process, more available fractions were transformed to less accessible and inert fractions; in particular, the exchangeable phase was dramatically decreased while the residual phase was substantially increased. A wheat seedling growing experiment showed that Pb phytoavailability was	2017	3	7	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Bioremediation; Contaminated soil; Lead; Phytoavailability; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Biodegradation, Environmental; Lead; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil; Soil Pollutants; Triticum	Li	Xiaomin
27171912	10.1021/acssynbio.6b00069	Biosynthesis of Chlorophyll a in a Purple Bacterial Phototroph and Assembly into a Plant Chlorophyll-Protein Complex.	Improvements to photosynthetic efficiency could be achieved by manipulating pigment biosynthetic pathways of photosynthetic organisms in order to increase the spectral coverage for light absorption. The development of organisms that can produce both bacteriochlorophylls and chlorophylls is one way to achieve this aim, and accordingly we have engineered the bacteriochlorophyll-utilizing anoxygenic phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides to make chlorophyll a. Bacteriochlorophyll and chlorophyll share a common biosynthetic pathway up to the precursor chlorophyllide. Deletion of genes responsible for the bacteriochlorophyll-specific modifications of chlorophyllide and replacement of the native bacteriochlorophyll synthase with a cyanobacterial chlorophyll synthase resulted in the production of chlorophyll a. This pigment could be assembled in vivo into the plant water-soluble chlorophyll protein, heterologously produced in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which represents a proof-of-principle for the 	2017	11	22	ACS Synth Biol	ACS synthetic biology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; antenna complex; bacteriochlorophyll; chlorophyll; photosynthesis; water-soluble chlorophyll protein; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Biosynthetic Pathways; Chlorophyll; Chlorophyll A; Cyanobacteria; Photosynthesis; Plant Proteins; Plants; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hitchcock	Andrew
27171418	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b01459	Unified Model of Nanosecond Charge Recombination in Closed Reaction Centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides: Role of Protein Polarization Dynamics.	Ongoing questions surround the influence of protein dynamics on rapid processes such as biological electron transfer. Such questions are particularly addressable in light-activated systems. In Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers, charge recombination or back electron transfer from the reduced bacteriopheophytin, HA(-), to the oxidized dimeric bacteriochlorophyll, P(+), may be monitored by both transient absorption spectroscopy and transient fluorescence spectroscopy. Signals measured with both these techniques decay in a similar three-exponential fashion with lifetimes of ...0.6-0.7, ...2-4, and ...10-20 ns, revealing the complex character of this electron transfer reaction. In this study a single kinetic model was developed to connect lifetime and amplitude data from both techniques. The model took into account the possibility that electron transfer from HA(-) to P(+) may occur with transient formation of the state P(+)BA(-). As a result it was possible to model the impact of nan	2018	4	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Thermodynamics	Dubas	K
27114466	10.1128/JB.00203-16	Modulation of the Lytic Activity of the Dedicated Autolysin for Flagellum Formation SltF by Flagellar Rod Proteins FlgB and FlgF.	SltF was identified previously as an autolysin required for the assembly of flagella in the alphaproteobacteria, but the nature of its peptidoglycan lytic activity remained unknown. Sequence alignment analyses suggest that it could function as either a muramidase, lytic transglycosylase, or ..-N-acetylglucosaminidase. Recombinant SltF from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was purified to apparent homogeneity, and it was demonstrated to function as a lytic transglycosylase based on enzymatic assays involving mass spectrometric analyses. Circular dichroism (CD) analysis determined that it is composed of 83.4% ..-structure and 1.48% ..-structure and thus is similar to family 1A lytic transglycosylases. However, alignment of apparent SltF homologs identified in the genome database defined a new subfamily of the family 1 lytic transglycosylases. SltF was demonstrated to be endo-acting, cleaving within chains of peptidoglycan, with optimal activity at pH 7.0. Its activity is modulated by two flagella	2017	5	26	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Molecular Sequence Data; N-Acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine Amidase; Peptidoglycan Glycosyltransferase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment	Herlihey	Francesca A
27037001	10.3402/fnr.v60.29580	Extract from a mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides as an enriched carotenoid source.	The extract Lycogen... from the phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (WL-APD911) has attracted significant attention because of its promising potential as a bioactive mixture, attributed in part to its anti-inflammatory properties and anti-oxidative activity. This study aims to investigate the components of Lycogen... and its anti-inflammatory properties and anti-oxidative activity. The mutant strain R. sphaeroides (WL-APD911) whose carotenoid 1,2-hydratase gene has been altered by chemical mutagenesis was used for the production of a new carotenoid. The strain was grown at 30..C on Luria-Bertani (LB) agar plates. After a 4-day culture period, the mutant strain displayed a 3.5-fold increase in carotenoid content, relative to the wild type. In the DPPH test, Lycogen... showed more potent anti-oxidative activity than lycopene from the wild-type strain. Primary skin irritation test with hamsters showed no irritation response in hamster skins after 30 days of treatment with 0.2% 	2016	4	2	Food Nutr Res	Food &amp; nutrition research	Lycogen...; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; anti-oxidative; carotenoid; methoxyneurosporene; phototrophic bacteria	Wang	Chih-Chiang
27034065	10.1007/s11120-016-0254-x	Effect of light intensity and various organic acids on the growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides LHII-deficient mutant in a turbidostat culture.	The composition of photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild strain 2.4.1 and its LHII-deficient mutant DBC.. was compared. The absence of LHII in the mutant was confirmed by comparison of chromatophores spectra and by the absence of electrophoretic band corresponding to LHII complex. Continuous turbidostat cultures of wild strain and its LHII-deficient mutant were compared in response to different light intensities. Cultures were grown using lactate, mixture of lactate and acetate or succinate as carbon source. For comparative analysis, an approximation of experimental data by Monod and Gompertz equations were used. Cultures of DBC.. had lower growth rates than wild strain when grown on lactate as electron donor and carbon source. Cultures of both strains grown on lactate and acetate or on succinate had similar growth rates. The cultures showed maximum growth rates when grown with succinate. Bacteriochlorophyll a content increased in both strains with decrease of incide	2017	3	13	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Gompertz equation; LHII-deficient mutant; Light intensity; Monod equation; Photobioreactor; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Acetates; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Lactic Acid; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinates	Eltsova	Zinaida
27029379	10.1111/php.12587	The CO Photodissociation and Recombination Dynamics of the W172Y/F282T Ligand Channel Mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides aa3 Cytochrome c Oxidase.	In the ligand channel of the cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rs aa3 ) W172 and F282 have been proposed to generate a constriction that may slow ligand access to and from the active site. To explore this issue, the tryptophan and phenylalanine residues in Rs aa3 were mutated to the less bulky tyrosine and threonine residues, respectively, which occupy these sites in Thermus thermophilus (Tt) ba3 cytochrome oxidase. The CO photolysis and recombination dynamics of the reduced wild-type Rs aa3 and the W172Y/F282T mutant were investigated using time-resolved optical absorption spectroscopy. The spectral changes associated with the multiple processes are attributed to different conformers. The major CO recombination process (44 ..s) in the W172Y/F282T mutant is ~500 times faster than the predominant CO recombination process in the wild-type enzyme (~23 ms). Classical dynamic simulations of the wild-type enzyme and double mutant showed significant structural changes at the 	2017	11	29	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Carbon Monoxide; Computer Simulation; Electron Transport Complex IV; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photolysis; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cassano	Jennifer A
27029214	10.1093/molehr/gaw027	Antiphospholipid antibody-induced miR-146a-3p drives trophoblast interleukin-8 secretion through activation of Toll-like receptor 8.	What is the role of microRNAs (miRs) in antiphospholipid antibody (aPL)-induced trophoblast inflammation? aPL-induced up-regulation of trophoblast miR-146a-3p is mediated by Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and miR-146a-3p in turn drives the cells to secrete interleukin (IL)-8 by activating the RNA sensor, TLR8. Obstetric antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by circulating aPL and an increased risk of pregnancy complications. We previously showed that aPL recognizing beta2 glycoprotein I (..2GPI) elicit human first trimester trophoblast secretion of IL-8 by activating TLR4. Since some miRs control TLR responses, their regulation in trophoblast cells by aPL and functional role in the aPL-mediated inflammatory response was investigated. miRs can be released from cells via exosomes, and therefore, miR exosome expression was also examined. A panel of miRs was selected based on their involvement with TLR signaling: miR-9; miR-146a-5p and its isomiR, miR-146a-3	2018	1	22	Mol Hum Reprod	Molecular human reproduction	MicroRNA; Toll-like receptor; antiphospholipid antibody; antiphospholipid syndrome; exosome; inflammation; lupus; placenta; pregnancy; trophoblast; Antibodies, Antiphospholipid; Antiphospholipid Syndrome; Female; Humans; Interleukin-8; MicroRNAs; Pregnancy; Pregnancy Trimester, First; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Toll-Like Receptor 8; Trophoblasts	Gysler	Stefan M
27023553	10.3390/s16040438	An Evaluation of Sensor Performance for Harmful Compounds by Using Photo-Induced Electron Transfer from Photosynthetic Membranes to Electrodes.	Rapid, simple, and low-cost screening procedures are necessary for the detection of harmful compounds in the effluent that flows out of point sources such as industrial outfall. The present study investigated the effects on a novel sensor of harmful compounds such as KCN, phenol, and herbicides such as 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), 2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine (atrazine), and 2-N-tert-butyl-4-N-ethyl-6-methylsulfanyl-1,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine (terbutryn). The sensor employed an electrode system that incorporated the photocurrent of intra-cytoplasmic membranes (so-called chromatophores) prepared from photosynthetic bacteria and linked using carbon paste electrodes. The amperometric curve (photocurrent-time curve) of photo-induced electron transfer from chromatophores of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to the electrode via an exogenous electron acceptor was composed of two characteristic phases: an abrupt increase in	2017	1	9	Sensors (Basel)	Sensors (Basel, Switzerland)	Michaelis-Menten-type kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; carbon paste electrode; chromatophore; harmful compounds; photo-induced electron transfer; Atrazine; Benzoquinones; Biosensing Techniques; Chromatophores; Cyanides; Electrodes; Herbicides; Industrial Waste; Kinetics; Phenols; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Triazines	Kasuno	Megumi
27013332	10.1016/j.bbabio.2016.03.020	Dimerization of core complexes as an efficient strategy for energy trapping in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, light harvesting LH2 complexes transfer absorbed solar energy to RC-LH1-PufX core complexes, which are mainly found in the dimeric state. Many other purple phototrophs have monomeric core complexes and the basis for requiring dimeric cores is not fully established, so we analysed strains of Rba. sphaeroides that contain either native dimeric core complexes or altered monomeric cores harbouring a deletion of the first 12 residues from the N-terminus of PufX, which retains the PufX polypeptide but removes the major determinant of core complex dimerization. Membranes were purified from strains with dimeric or monomeric cores, and with either high or low levels of the LH2 complex. Samples were interrogated with absorption, steady-state fluorescence, and picosecond time-resolved fluorescence kinetic spectroscopies to reveal their light-harvesting and energy trapping properties. We find that under saturating excitation light inten	2016	8	4	Biochim Biophys Acta	Biochimica et biophysica acta	LH1; LH2; Light harvesting; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic excitons; RC; Algorithms; Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Biological; Photosynthesis; Protein Multimerization; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Chenchiliyan	Manoop
27005789	10.1016/j.biortech.2016.03.017	Concomitant biohydrogen and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate production from dark fermentation effluents by adapted Rhodobacter sphaeroides and mixed photofermentative cultures.	This work aimed at investigating concomitant production of biohydrogen and poly-..-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) by photofermentation (PF) using dark fermentation effluents (DFE). An adapted culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides AV1b (pH 6.5, 24..2..C) achieved H2 and PHB yields of 256 (..2) NmLH2/g Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and 273.8mgPHB/gCOD (32.5..3% of the dry cells weight (DCW)), respectively. When a diluted (1:2) DFE medium was applied to the adapted pure and mixed photofermentative culture, the respective H2 yields were 164.0 (..12) and 71.3 (..6) NmLH2/gCOD and the PHB yields were 212.1 (..105.2) and 50.7 (..2.7) mgPHB/gCOD added, corresponding to 24 (..0.7) and 6.3 (..0) % DCW, respectively. The concomitant H2 and PHB production from the PF process gave a good DFE post treatment achieving up to 80% COD removal from the initial DFE. 	2017	1	18	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biohydrogen; Dark fermentation; Photofermentation; Poly-..-hydroxybutyrate; Biofuels; Bioreactors; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydroxybutyrates; Polyesters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ghimire	Anish
26992792	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2016.01.009	Modifying the endogenous electron fluxes of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 for improved electricity generation.	The purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides serve as a promising biocatalyst in the photo-microbial fuel cell system (photo-MFC). This gram-negative species performs highly efficient anoxygenic photosynthesis that ensures an anaerobic environment in the anode compartment. Previous studies incorporating R. sphaeroides into photo-MFC were conducted using platinum as the anode electrode. In this study, we detected a steady current generation of R. sphaeroides in a bioelectrochemical system where glassy carbon was the working electrode and a typical growth medium was the electrolyte. The bioelectricity generation synchronized with the supplementation of reduced carbon source and showed immediate response to illumination, which strongly indicated the correlation between the observed current and the cytoplasmic quinone activity. Modifications of the endogenous electron flows mediated by quinone pool are shown to have significantly enhanced the bioelectricity generation. We anticipate that th	2017	1	17	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	Anode strain optimization; Bioelectricity generation; Bioelectrochemical system; Microbial fuel cell; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone pool; Biocatalysis; Bioelectric Energy Sources; Electricity; Electron Transport; Models, Biological; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic Acid	Wong	Man Tung
26942583	10.1007/s11120-016-0239-9	Weak temperature dependence of P (+) H A (-) recombination in mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers.	In contrast with findings on the wild-type Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center, biexponential P (+) H A (-) .......PH A charge recombination is shown to be weakly dependent on temperature between 78 and 298..K in three variants with single amino acids exchanged in the vicinity of primary electron acceptors. These mutated reaction centers have diverse overall kinetics of charge recombination, spanning an average lifetime from..~2 to..~20..ns. Despite these differences a protein relaxation model applied previously to wild-type reaction centers was successfully used to relate the observed kinetics to the temporal evolution of the free energy level of the state P (+) H A (-) relative to P (+) B A (-) . We conclude that the observed variety in the kinetics of charge recombination, together with their weak temperature dependence, is caused by a combination of factors that are each affected to a different extent by the point mutations in a particular mutant complex. These are as follows: 	2017	2	15	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Charge recombination; Electron transfer; Protein dynamics; Reaction centers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transient absorption; Absorption, Physicochemical; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
26923069	10.1016/j.biochi.2016.02.013	Delipidation of cytochrome c oxidase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides destabilizes its quaternary structure.	Delipidation of detergent-solubilized cytochrome c oxidase isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rbs-CcO) has no apparent structural and/or functional effect on the protein, however affects its resistance against thermal or chemical denaturation. Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) hydrolysis of phospholipids that are co-purified with the enzyme removes all but two tightly bound phosphatidylethanolamines. Replacement of the removed phospholipids with nonionic detergent decreases both thermal stability of the enzyme and its resilience against the effect of chemical denaturants such as urea. In contrast to nondelipidated Rbs-CcO, the enzymatic activity of PLA2-treated Rbs-CcO is substantially diminished after exposure to high (&gt;4..M) urea concentration at room temperature without an alteration of its secondary structure. Absorbance spectroscopy and sedimentation velocity experiments revealed a strong correlation between intact tertiary structure of heme regions and quaternary structure, respecti	2017	1	13	Biochimie	Biochimie	Chemical denaturation; Delipidation; Membrane protein stability; Protein-lipid interaction; Thermal denaturation; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Lipids; Protein Denaturation; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Musatov	Andrej
26885583	10.1134/S0006297916010065	Investigation of Stability of Photosynthetic Reaction Center and Quantum Dot Hybrid Films.	The efficiency of interaction (efficiency of energy transfer) between various quantum dots (QDs) and photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and conditions of long-term stability of functioning of such hybrid complexes in film preparations were investigated. It was found that dry films containing RCs and QDs and maintained at atmospheric humidity are capable to keep their functional activity for at least some months as judging by results of measurement of their spectral characteristics, efficiency of energy transfer from QDs to RCs, and RC electron-transport activity. Addition of trehalose to the films giving them still greater stability is especially expressed for films maintained at low humidity. These stable hybrid film structures are promising for further biotechnological studies for developing new phototransformation devices. 	2016	10	27	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Biotechnology; Electron Transport; Energy Transfer; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Stability; Quantum Dots; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose	Lukashev	E P
26875086	10.1007/s12010-016-2005-z	Optimization of Biomass and 5-Aminolevulinic Acid Production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides ATCC17023 via Response Surface Methodology.	Microbial 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) produced from wastewater is considered as potential renewable energy. However, many hurdles are needed to be overcome such as the regulation of key influencing factors on ALA yield. Biomass and ALA production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides was optimized using response surface methodology. The culturing medium was artificial volatile fatty acids wastewater. Three additives were optimized, namely succinate and glycine that are precursors of ALA biosynthesis, and D-glucose that is an inhibitor of ALA dehydratase. The optimal conditions were achieved by analyzing the response surface plots. Statistical analysis showed that succinate at 8.56..mmol/L, glycine at 5.06..mmol/L, and D-glucose at 7.82..mmol/L were the best conditions. Under these optimal conditions, the highest biomass production and ALA yield of 3.55..g/L and 5.49..mg/g-biomass were achieved. Subsequent verification experiments at optimal values had the maximum biomass production of 3.41.......	2017	1	16	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	5-Aminolevulinic acid yield; Biomass; Influencing factor; Response surface methodology; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Wastewater; Aminolevulinic Acid; Biomass; Fatty Acids, Volatile; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Porphobilinogen Synthase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Surface Properties; Waste Water	Liu	Shuli
26869605	10.4014/jmb.1601.01019	The Photoheterotrophic Growth of Bacteriochlorophyll Synthase-Deficient Mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Is Restored by I44F Mutant Chlorophyll Synthase of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803.	Chlorophyll synthase (ChlG) and bacteriochlorophyll synthase (BchG) have a high degree of substrate specificity. The BchG mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, BG1 strain, is photosynthetically incompetent. When BG1 harboring chlG of Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 was cultured photoheterotrophically, colonies arose at a frequency of approximately 10(-8). All the suppressor mutants were determined to have the same mutational change, ChlGI44F. The mutated enzyme ChlGI44F showed BchG activity. Remarkably, BchGF28I, which has the substitution of F at the corresponding 28(th) residue to I, showed ChlG activity. The Km values of ChlGI44F and BchGF28I for their original substrates, chlorophyllide (Chlide) a and bacteriochlorophyllide (Bchlide) a, respectively, were not affected by the mutations, but the Km values of ChlGI44F and BchGF28I for the new substrates Bchlide a and Chlide a, respectively, were more than 10-fold larger than those for their original substrates, suggesting the lower affinities	2017	4	6	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803; bacteriochlorophyll synthase; chlorophyll synthase; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Carbon-Oxygen Ligases; Chlorophyll; Enzyme Activation; Heterotrophic Processes; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthesis; Phototrophic Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Synechocystis	Kim	Eui-Jin
26835988	10.1016/j.lfs.2016.01.046	Effects and underlying mechanisms of endotoxemia on post-incisional pain in rats.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects and underlying mechanisms of endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) on postoperative pain using a rat model of incisional pain. Animals were assigned to one of four groups using a 2..2 experimental design: a single intraperitoneal injection of 5mg/kg LPS versus vehicle, by plantar incision versus anesthesia alone. Spontaneous pain and mechanical paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) were evaluated using Rat Grimace Scale (RGS) and von Frey fibers, respectively. Analgesic effects of ketoprofen, morphine, and wound infiltration with ropivacaine, as well as the contribution of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 pathway, were also evaluated. In vivo single fiber recordings were performed to assess the nociceptive afferent signals from the surgical site. Systemic administration of LPS significantly increased the pain intensity at 2h after hind paw incision, but did not affect the PWT. The duration of post-incisional pain assessed by both scales 	2016	7	28	Life Sci	Life sciences	Analgesics; Endotoxin; Postoperative pain; Animals; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Endotoxemia; Injections, Spinal; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Pain Measurement; Pain, Postoperative; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Kawano	Takashi
26833419	10.1128/JB.01025-15	Different Functions of Phylogenetically Distinct Bacterial Complex I Isozymes.	NADH:quinone oxidoreductase (complex I) is a bioenergetic enzyme that transfers electrons from NADH to quinone, conserving the energy of this reaction by contributing to the proton motive force. While the importance of NADH oxidation to mitochondrial aerobic respiration is well documented, the contribution of complex I to bacterial electron transport chains has been tested in only a few species. Here, we analyze the function of two phylogenetically distinct complex I isozymes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an alphaproteobacterium that contains well-characterized electron transport chains. We found that R. sphaeroides complex I activity is important for aerobic respiration and required for anaerobic dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) respiration (in the absence of light), photoautotrophic growth, and photoheterotrophic growth (in the absence of an external electron acceptor). Our data also provide insight into the functions of the phylogenetically distinct R. sphaeroidescomplex I enzymes (complex I	2016	8	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Anaerobiosis; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Hydrogen; Quinone Reductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Spero	Melanie A
26818577	10.1016/j.biortech.2016.01.030	Performance, 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) yield and microbial population dynamics in a photobioreactor system treating soybean wastewater: Effect of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and organic loading rate (OLR).	Effects of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and influent organic loading rate (OLR) were investigated in a photobioreactor containing PNSB (Rhodobacter sphaeroides)-chemoheterotrophic bacteria to treat soybean wastewater. Pollutants removal, biomass production and ALA yield in different phases were investigated in together with functional microbial population dynamics. The results showed that proper HRT and OLR increased the photobioreactor performance including pollutants removal, biomass and ALA productions. 89.5% COD, 90.6% TN and 91.2% TP removals were achieved as well as the highest biomass production of 2655mg/L and ALA yield of 7.40mg/g-biomass under the optimal HRT of 60h and OLR of 2.48g/L/d. In addition, HRT and OLR have important impacts on PNSB and total bacteria dynamics. 	2016	12	13	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	ALA yield; Hydraulic retention time; Organic loading rate; Photobioreactor; Soybean wastewater; Aminolevulinic Acid; Biodegradation, Environmental; Biomass; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Organic Chemicals; Oxidation-Reduction; Photobioreactors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soybeans; Time Factors; Waste Water; Water Pollutants, Chemical; Water Purification	Liu	Shuli
26800035	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b00121	Photoprotection Mechanism of Light-Harvesting Antenna Complex from Purple Bacteria.	Photosynthetic light-harvesting apparatus efficiently capture sunlight and transfer the energy to reaction centers, while they safely dissipate excess energy to surrounding environments for a protection of their organisms. In this study, we performed pump-probe spectroscopic measurements with a temporal window ranging from femtosecond to submillisecond on the purple bacterial antenna complex LH2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 to clarify its photoprotection functions. The observed excited state dynamics in the time range from subnanosecond to microsecond exhibits that the triplet-triplet excitation energy transfer from bacteriochlorophyll a to carotenoid takes place with a time constant of 16.7 ns. Furthermore, ultrafast spectroscopic data suggests that a molecular assembly of bacteriochlorophyll a in LH2 efficiently suppresses a generation of triple bacteriochlorophyll a. 	2016	10	21	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kosumi	Daisuke
26645545	10.1097/j.pain.0000000000000439	Toll-like receptor 4 contributes to chronic itch, alloknesis, and spinal astrocyte activation in male mice.	Increasing evidence suggests that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) contributes importantly to spinal cord glial activation and chronic pain sensitization; however, its unique role in acute and chronic itch is unclear. In this study, we investigated the involvement of TLR4 in acute and chronic itch models in male mice using both transgenic and pharmacological approaches. Tlr4 mice exhibited normal acute itch induced by compound 48/80 and chloroquine, but these mice showed substantial reductions in scratching in chronic itch models of dry skin, induced by acetone and diethylether followed by water (AEW), contact dermatitis, and allergic contact dermatitis on the neck. Intrathecal (spinal) inhibition of TLR4 with lipopolysaccharide Rhodobacter sphaeroides did not affect acute itch but suppressed AEW-induced chronic itch. Compound 48/80 and AEW also produced robust alloknesis, a touch-elicited itch in wild-type mice, which was suppressed by intrathecal lipopolysaccharide R sphaeroides and Tlr4 	2017	1	13	Pain	Pain	Animals; Astrocytes; Chronic Disease; Disease Models, Animal; Hyperalgesia; Male; Mice, Knockout; Posterior Horn Cells; Pruritus; Spinal Cord Dorsal Horn; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Liu	Tong
30037398	10.1016/j.jes.2017.11.001	Impacts of Fe<sup>2+</sup> on 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) biosynthesis of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in wastewater treatment by regulating nif gene expression.	This study aimed to increase bacterial growth and 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) biosynthesis of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in wastewater treatment through adding ferrous ion (Fe<sup>2+</sup>). Results demonstrated that Fe<sup>2+</sup> effectively enhanced the biomass production and ALA yield of R. sphaeroides. Moreover, the optimal Fe<sup>2+</sup> dosage was found to be 400..mol/L, which was associated with the highest biomass of 4015.3mg/L and maximum ALA yield of 15.9mg/g-dry cell weight (mg/g-DCW). Mechanism analysis revealed that Fe<sup>2+</sup> vastly improved Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) production by up-regulating the nif gene expression, and increasing ATP enhanced the biomass and ALA yield by supplying energy for bacterial growth and ALA biosynthesis, respectively. Correlation analysis showed that the ALA and ATP yields had positive relation with nifA and nifU gene expression. In addition, the nifA and nifU gene expression displayed high consistency of co-transcription at the optim	2018	8	3	J Environ Sci (China)	Journal of environmental sciences (China)	5-Aminolevulinic acid; ATP production; Ferrous ion; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Up-regulation; nif genes; Bacterial Proteins; Iron; Levulinic Acids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Waste Disposal, Fluid; Waste Water	Liu	Shuli
29310850	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2017.11.009	Utilization of distillery wastewater for hydrogen production in one-stage and two-stage processes involving photofermentation.	In this study, distillery wastewater was treated by dark fermentation or photofermentation alone, and by sequential dark and photofermentation processes using anaerobic saccharolytic consortium and purple nonsulfur bacteria. Combination of dark and photofermentation resulted in the maximal H2 yield of 17.6L/L of distillery waste with chemical oxygen demand 40g/L. It is equivalent to 205kJ/L distillery wastewater and corresponds to recovery of approximately 4-8% of energy consumed during ethanol production. Optimal performance of photofermentation was observed at 20% concentration of pre-fermented distillery waste. In photofermentation, the range of the suitable distillery waste concentrations was extended and the H2 yield was improved by choosing the tolerant strain of purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides B-3059. After two stages, organic acids and sugars were completely consumed that means wastewater treatment concomitant to H2 production.	2018	10	1	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	Dark fermentation; Distillery wastewater; Hydrogen production; Photofermentation; Purple bacteria; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Light; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Waste Water	Laurinavichene	Tatyana
29291373	10.1016/j.bbabio.2017.12.005	Probing the local lipid environment of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome bc<sub>1</sub> and Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 cytochrome b<sub>6</sub>f complexes with styrene maleic acid.	Intracytoplasmic vesicles (chromatophores) in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides represent a minimal structural and functional unit for absorbing photons and utilising their energy for the generation of ATP. The cytochrome bc1 complex (cytbc1) is one of the four major components of the chromatophore alongside the reaction centre-light harvesting 1-PufX core complex (RC-LH1-PufX), the light-harvesting 2 complex (LH2), and ATP synthase. Although the membrane organisation of these complexes is known, their local lipid environments have not been investigated. Here we utilise poly(styrene-alt-maleic acid) (SMA) co-polymers as a tool to simultaneously determine the local lipid environments of the RC-LH1-PufX, LH2 and cytbc1 complexes. SMA has previously been reported to effectively solubilise complexes in lipid-rich membrane regions whilst leaving lipid-poor ordered protein arrays intact. Here we show that SMA solubilises cytbc1 c	2018	5	15	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Cytochrome b(6)f; Cytochrome bc(1); Quinone pool; Rba. sphaeroides; SMA; Synechocystis; Bacterial Chromatophores; Bacterial Proteins; Cytochrome b6f Complex; Electron Transport Complex III; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Maleates; Membrane Lipids; Microscopy, Electron, Transmission; Models, Molecular; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Polystyrenes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solubility; Synechocystis; Thylakoids	Swainsbury	David J K
29285578	10.1007/s11120-017-0474-8	Characterization of mercury(II)-induced inhibition of photochemistry in the reaction center of photosynthetic bacteria.	Mercuric contamination of aqueous cultures results in impairment of viability of photosynthetic bacteria primarily by inhibition of the photochemistry of the reaction center (RC) protein. Isolated reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were exposed to Hg<sup>2+</sup> ions up to saturation concentration (~...10<sup>3</sup> [Hg<sup>2+</sup>]/[RC]) and the gradual time- and concentration-dependent loss of the photochemical activity was monitored. The vast majority of Hg<sup>2+</sup> ions (about 500 [Hg<sup>2+</sup>]/[RC]) had low affinity for the RC [binding constant Kb...~...5..mM<sup>-1</sup>] and only a few (~...1 [Hg<sup>2+</sup>]/[RC]) exhibited strong binding (Kb...~...50....M<sup>-1</sup>). Neither type of binding site had specific and harmful effects on the photochemistry of the RC. The primary charge separation was preserved even at saturation mercury(II) concentration, but essential further steps of stabilization and utilization were blocked al	2018	9	18	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial photosynthesis; Bacteriochlorophyll absorption spectroscopy; Bacteriochlorophyll fluorescence spectroscopy; Bioenergetics; Mercury(II) contamination; Quinones; Bacteriochlorophylls; Benzoquinones; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Mercury; Photochemistry; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Sipka	G..bor
29284486	10.1186/s12918-017-0489-y	Use of transcriptomic data for extending a model of the AppA/PpsR system in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Photosynthetic (PS) gene expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides is regulated in response to changes in light and redox conditions mainly by PrrB/A, FnrL and AppA/PpsR systems. The PrrB/A and FnrL systems activate the expression of them under anaerobic conditions while the AppA/PpsR system represses them under aerobic conditions. Recently, two mathematical models have been developed for the AppA/PpsR system and demonstrated how the interaction between AppA and PpsR could lead to a phenotype in which PS genes are repressed under semi-aerobic conditions. These models have also predicted that the transition from aerobic to anaerobic growth mode could occur via a bistable regime. However, they lack experimentally quantifiable inputs and outputs. Here, we extend one of them to include such quantities and combine all relevant micro-array data publically available for a PS gene of this bacterium and use that to parameterise the model. In addition, we hypothesise that the AppA/PpsR system alone 	2019	2	28	BMC Syst Biol	BMC systems biology	Gene regulatory network; Mathematical modelling; Micro-array data; Oxygen and light sensing; Photosynthetic bacteria; Purple non-sulfur bacteria; Signal transduction system; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Hemolysin Proteins; Models, Genetic; Oxygen; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Transcriptome	Pandey	Rakesh
29278357	10.3390/ma11010028	Detection of Singlet Oxygen Formation inside Photoactive Biohybrid Composite Material.	Photosynthetic reaction center proteins (RCs) are the most efficient light energy converter systems in nature. The first steps of the primary charge separation in photosynthesis take place in these proteins. Due to their unique properties, combining RCs with nano-structures promising applications can be predicted in optoelectronic systems. In the present work RCs purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides purple bacteria were immobilized on multiwalled carbon nanotubes (CNTs). Carboxyl-and amine-functionalised CNTs were used, so different binding procedures, physical sorption and chemical sorption as well, could be applied as immobilization techniques. Light-induced singlet oxygen production was measured in the prepared photoactive biocomposites in water-based suspension by histidine mediated chemical trapping. Carbon nanotubes were applied under different conditions in order to understand their role in the equilibration of singlet oxygen concentration in the suspension. CNTs acted a	2020	10	1	Materials (Basel)	Materials (Basel, Switzerland)	multiwalled carbon nanotubes; photoactive nanocomposites; photosynthetic reaction center; singlet oxygen	Hajdu	Kata
29189926	10.1007/s10529-017-2486-z	Long-term H<sub>2</sub> photoproduction from starch by co-culture of Clostridium butyricum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides in a repeated batch process.	To prove the possibility of efficient starch photofermentation in co-culture of heterotrophic and phototrophic bacteria over prolonged period. Repeated batch photofermentation of starch was demonstrated in co-culture Clostridium butyricum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides under microaerobic conditions. It continued 15..months without addition of new inoculum or pH regulation when using 4-5..g starch l<sup>-1</sup> and 0.04..g yeast extract l<sup>-1</sup>. The complete degradation of starch without volatile fatty acids accumulation was shown in this co-culture. The average H2 yield of 5.2..mol/mol glucose was much higher than that in Clostridium monoculture. The species composition of co-culture was studied by q-PCR assay. The concentration of Clostridium cells in prolonged co-culture was lower than in monoculture and even in a single batch co-culture. This means that Clostridia growth was significantly limited whereas starch hydrolysis still took place. The prolonged repeated batch photoferm	2018	9	4	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Clostridia Co-culture; Hydrogen production; Photofermentation; Purple bacteria; Repeated batch process; Batch Cell Culture Techniques; Clostridium butyricum; Coculture Techniques; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Kinetics; Photobioreactors; Photochemical Processes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Starch	Laurinavichene	Tatyana
29159336	10.1039/c7cp90263h	Retraction: The reductive phase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase disentangled by CO ligation.	Retraction of 'The reductive phase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase disentangled by CO ligation' by Hendrik Mohrmann et al., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2017, DOI: .	2019	11	20	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	NA	Mohrmann	Hendrik
29131579	10.1021/acs.biochem.7b00978	Binding and Energetics of Electron Transfer between an Artificial Four-Helix Mn-Protein and Reaction Centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The ability of an artificial four-helix bundle Mn-protein, P1, to bind and transfer an electron to photosynthetic reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides was characterized using optical spectroscopy. Upon illumination of reaction centers, an electron is transferred from P, the bacteriochlorophyll dimer, to QA, the primary electron acceptor. The P1 Mn-protein can bind to the reaction center and reduce the oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P<sup>+</sup>, with a dissociation constant of 1.2 ..M at pH 9.4, comparable to the binding constant of c-type cytochromes. Amino acid substitutions of surface residues on the Mn-protein resulted in increases in the dissociation constant to 8.3 ..M. The extent of reduction of P<sup>+</sup> by the P1 Mn-protein was dependent on the P/P<sup>+</sup> midpoint potential and the pH. Analysis of the free energy difference yielded a midpoint potential of approximately 635 mV at pH 9.4 for the Mn cofactor of the P1 Mn-pro	2018	1	17	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Manganese; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Espiritu	Eduardo
29127540	10.1007/s12010-017-2655-5	Evaluation of Lighting Systems, Carbon Sources, and Bacteria Cultures on Photofermentative Hydrogen Production.	Fluorescent and incandescent lighting systems were applied for batch photofermentative hydrogen production by four purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria (PNSB). The hydrogen production efficiency of Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodobacter capsulatus, and Rhodospirillum rubrum was evaluated using different carbon sources (acetate, butyrate, lactate, and malate). Incandescent light was found to be more effective for bacteria cell growth and hydrogen production. It was observed that PNSB followed substrate selection criteria for hydrogen production. Only R. palustris was able to produce hydrogen using most carbon sources. Cell density was almost constant, but cell growth rate and hydrogen production were significantly varied under the different lighting systems. The kinetics study suggested that initial substrate concentration had a positive correlation with lag phase duration. Among the PNSB, R. palustris grew faster and had higher hydrogen yields of 1.58, 4.	2018	7	10	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	Fluorescent light; Incandescent light; Kinetics; PNSB; Photofermentation; Carbon; Culture Media; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Lighting; Rhodobacter; Rhodopseudomonas	Hu	Chengcheng
29126780	10.1016/j.bbabio.2017.11.001	Identification of protein W, the elusive sixth subunit of the Rhodopseudomonas palustris reaction center-light harvesting 1 core complex.	The X-ray crystal structure of the Rhodopseudomonas (Rps.) palustris reaction center-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complex revealed the presence of a sixth protein component, variably referred to in the literature as helix W, subunit W or protein W. The position of this protein prevents closure of the LH1 ring, possibly to allow diffusion of ubiquinone/ubiquinol between the RC and the cytochrome bc1 complex in analogous fashion to the well-studied PufX protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The identity and function of helix W have remained unknown for over 13years; here we use a combination of biochemistry, mass spectrometry, molecular genetics and electron microscopy to identify this protein as RPA4402 in Rps. palustris CGA009. Protein W shares key conserved sequence features with PufX homologs, and although a deletion mutant was able to grow under photosynthetic conditions with no discernible phenotype, we show that a tagged version of protein W pulls down the RC-LH1 co	2018	6	11	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Helix W; Photosynthesis; PufX; RPA4402; Reaction center-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complex; Rhodopseudomonas palustris; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mass Spectrometry; Rhodopseudomonas	Jackson	Philip J
29121933	10.1186/s12934-017-0808-4	Biochemical analysis and the preliminary crystallographic characterization of D-tagatose 3-epimerase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	D-Tagatose 3-epimerase epimerizes D-fructose to yield D-psicose, which is a rare sugar that exists in small quantities in nature and is difficult to synthesize chemically. We aim to explore potential industrial biocatalysts for commercial-scale manufacture of this rare sugar. A D-tagatose 3-epimerase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsDTE) has recently been identified as a D-tagatose 3-epimerase that can epimerize D-fructose to yield D-psicose with a high conversion rate. The purified RsDTE by Ni-affinity chromatography, ionic exchange chromatography and gel filtration forms a tetramer in solution. The maximal activity was in Tris-HCl buffer pH 8.5, and the optimal temperature was at 35....C. The product, D-psicose, was confirmed using HPLC and NMR. Crystals of RsDTE were obtained using crystal kits and further refined under crystallization conditions such as 10% PEG 8000,0.1..M HEPES pH 7.5, and 8% ethylene glycol at 20....C using the sitting-drop vapor diffusion method. The RsDTE homolo	2018	7	12	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Crystallization; D-Fructose; D-Psicose; D-Tagatose 3-epimerase; Structural analysis; TIM-barrel fold; Binding Sites; Biocatalysis; Carbohydrate Epimerases; Cloning, Molecular; Crystallization; Crystallography, X-Ray; Fructose; Hexoses; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Industrial Microbiology; Kinetics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity; Temperature	Qi	Zhengliang
29095621	10.1021/acs.jpcb.7b09321	Protein Vibration Effects on Primary Electron Transfer Dynamics in Rhodobacter sphaeroides Photosynthetic Reaction Center.	Primary electron transfer (ET) in the chromophore subsystem in a bacterial reaction center (RC) is a unique process, and is coupled with the protein motion, which, like the ET, is caused by photoexcitation of these chromophores. ET is also coupled with dissipative processes, which are caused by interaction between chromophores and vibrations of its surrounding protein. We propose a new dynamics calculation method that accounts for both these effects of protein vibrations. Within this method, the photoinduced protein motion causes an addition of coherent component to the ET rate. We performed dynamics calculation using this method and parameters, which were determined from the ab initio wave functions of the chromophore subsystem and protein normal vibrational modes. We showed that it is this protein motion that causes oscillations in the time-dependencies of stimulated emission intensities and of absorption at 1020 nm. Moreover, the latter oscillations are related to the coherent compo	2018	5	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibration	Poddubnyy	Vladimir V
29089449	10.1126/scisignal.aan1308	Quantitative single-molecule imaging of TLR4 reveals ligand-specific receptor dimerization.	In humans, invading pathogens are recognized by Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Upon recognition of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) derived from the cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria, TLR4 dimerizes and can stimulate two different signaling pathways, the proinflammatory, MyD88-dependent pathway and the antiviral, MyD88-independent pathway. The balance between these two pathways is ligand-dependent, and ligand composition determines whether the invading pathogen activates or evades the host immune response. We investigated the dimerization behavior of TLR4 in intact cells in response to different LPS chemotypes through quantitative single-molecule localization microscopy. Quantitative superresolved data showed that TLR4 was monomeric in the absence of its co-receptors MD2 and CD14 in transfected HEK 293 cells. When TLR4 was present together with MD2 and CD14 but in the absence of LPS, 52% of the receptors were monomeric and 48% were dimeric. LPS from Escherichia coli or Salmonella minn	2018	6	15	Sci Signal	Science signaling	Escherichia coli; HEK293 Cells; Humans; Ligands; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Lymphocyte Antigen 96; Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88; NF-kappa B p50 Subunit; Protein Multimerization; Salmonella; Single Molecule Imaging; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Transfection	Kr..ger	Carmen L
29067359	10.1039/c7cp06480b	The reductive phase of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase disentangled by CO ligation.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) is a membrane protein of the respiratory chain that catalytically reduces molecular oxygen (O2) to water while translocating protons across the membrane. The enzyme hosts two copper and two heme iron moieties (heme a/heme a3). The atomic details of the sequential steps that go along with this redox-driven proton translocation are a matter of debate. Particularly for the reductive phase of CcO that precedes oxygen binding experimental data are scarce. Here, we use CcO under anaerobic conditions where carbon monoxide (CO) is bound to heme a3 which in tandem with CuB forms the binuclear center (BNC). Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) absorption spectroscopy is combined with electro-chemistry to probe different redox and protonation states populated by variation of the external electrostatic potential. With this approach, the redox behavior of heme a and the BNC could be separated and the corresponding redox potentials 	2019	11	20	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	NA	Mohrmann	Hendrik
29042567	10.1038/s41467-017-01124-z	Mapping the ultrafast flow of harvested solar energy in living photosynthetic cells.	Photosynthesis transfers energy efficiently through a series of antenna complexes to the reaction center where charge separation occurs. Energy transfer in vivo is primarily monitored by measuring fluorescence signals from the small fraction of excitations that fail to result in charge separation. Here, we use two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy to follow the entire energy transfer process in a thriving culture of the purple bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. By removing contributions from scattered light, we extract the dynamics of energy transfer through the dense network of antenna complexes and into the reaction center. Simulations demonstrate that these dynamics constrain the membrane organization into small pools of core antenna complexes that rapidly trap energy absorbed by surrounding peripheral antenna complexes. The rapid trapping and limited back transfer of these excitations lead to transfer efficiencies of 83% and a small functional light-harvesting unit.During photosy	2018	3	5	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bacterial Proteins; Energy Transfer; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy; Spectrophotometry	Dahlberg	Peter D
29035062	10.1021/acs.jpcb.7b10036	Determination of the Complete Spin Density Distribution in <sup>13</sup>C-Labeled Protein-Bound Radical Intermediates Using Advanced 2D Electron Paramagnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and Density Functional Theory.	Determining the complete electron spin density distribution for protein-bound radicals, even with advanced pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) methods, is a formidable task. Here we present a strategy to overcome this problem combining multifrequency HYSCORE and ENDOR measurements on site-specifically <sup>13</sup>C-labeled samples with DFT calculations on model systems. As a demonstration of this approach, pulsed EPR experiments are performed on the primary QA and secondary QB ubisemiquinones of the photosynthetic reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides <sup>13</sup>C-labeled at the ring and tail positions. Despite the large number of nuclei interacting with the unpaired electron in these samples, two-dimensional X- and Q-band HYSCORE and orientation selective Q-band ENDOR resolve and allow for a characterization of the eight expected <sup>13</sup>C resonances from significantly different hyperfine tensors for both semiquinones. From these results w	2018	5	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Carbon Isotopes; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Free Radicals; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Taguchi	Alexander T
29034914	10.1039/c7cp03942e	Local water sensing: water exchange in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers embedded in a trehalose glass studied using multiresonance EPR.	Using isotope labeled water (D2O and H2<sup>17</sup>O) and pulsed W-band (94 GHz) high-field multiresonance EPR spectroscopies, such as ELDOR-detected NMR and ENDOR, the biologically important question of detection and quantification of local water in proteins is addressed. A bacterial reaction center (bRC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R26 embedded into a trehalose glass matrix is used as a model system. The bRC hosts the two native radical cofactor ions (primary electron donor) and (primary electron acceptor) as well as an artificial nitroxide spin label site-specifically attached to the surface of the H-protein domain. The three paramagnetic reporter groups have distinctly different local environments. They serve as local probes to detect water molecules via magnetic interactions (electron-nuclear hyperfine and quadrupole) with either deuterons or <sup>17</sup>O nuclei. bRCs were equilibrated in an atmosphere of different relative humidities allowing us to contr	2018	2	5	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	NA	Nalepa	Anna
29032642	10.4014/jmb.1708.08068	Characterization of ATPase Activity of Free and Immobilized Chromatophore Membrane Vesicles of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The intracytoplasmic membrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides readily vesiculates when cells are lysed. The resulting chromatophore membrane vesicle (CMV) contains the photosynthetic machineries to synthesize ATP by ATPase. The light-dependent ATPase activity of CMV was lowered in the presence of O..., but the activity increased to the level observed under anaerobic condition when the reaction mixture was supplemented with ascorbic acid (...0.5 mM). Cell lysis in the presence of biotinyl cap phospholipid (bcp) resulted in the incorporation of bcp into the membrane to form biotinylated CMV (bCMV), which binds to streptavidin resin at a ratio of approximately 24 ..g bacteriochlorophyll a/ml resin. The ATPase activity of CMV was not affected by biotinylation, but approximately 30% of the activity was lost by immobilization to resin. Interestingly, the remaining 70% of ATPase activity stayed constant during 7-day storage at 4..C. On the contrary, the ATPase activity of bCMV withou	2019	2	19	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; biotinyl cap phospholipid; chromatophore membrane vesicle; immobilization; light-dependent ATPase; Adenosine Triphosphatases; Anaerobiosis; Ascorbic Acid; Bacterial Chromatophores; Biological Transport; Biotinylation; Cold Temperature; Immobilized Proteins; Light; Phospholipids; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Streptavidin	Kim	Hyeonjun
29030914	10.1111/mmi.13861	PufQ regulates porphyrin flux at the haem/bacteriochlorophyll branchpoint of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis via interactions with ferrochelatase.	Facultative phototrophs such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides can switch between heterotrophic and photosynthetic growth. This transition is governed by oxygen tension and involves the large-scale production of bacteriochlorophyll, which shares a biosynthetic pathway with haem up to protoporphyrin IX. Here, the pathways diverge with the insertion of Fe<sup>2+</sup> or Mg<sup>2+</sup> into protoporphyrin by ferrochelatase or magnesium chelatase, respectively. Tight regulation of this branchpoint is essential, but the mechanisms for switching between respiratory and photosynthetic growth are poorly understood. We show that PufQ governs the haem/bacteriochlorophyll switch; pufQ is found within the oxygen-regulated pufQBALMX operon encoding the reaction centre-light-harvesting photosystem complex. A pufQ deletion strain synthesises low levels of bacteriochlorophyll and accumulates the biosynthetic precursor coproporphyrinogen III; a suppressor mutant of this strain harbours a mutation in the hem	2018	1	26	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Coproporphyrinogens; Ferrochelatase; Heme; Heterotrophic Processes; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lyases; Mutation; Operon; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Phototrophic Processes; Protoporphyrins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles	Chidgey	Jack W
28987085	10.1063/1.4999057	Communication: Broad manifold of excitonic states in light-harvesting complex 1 promotes efficient unidirectional energy transfer in vivo.	In photosynthetic organisms, the pigment-protein complexes that comprise the light-harvesting antenna exhibit complex electronic structures and ultrafast dynamics due to the coupling among the chromophores. Here, we present absorptive two-dimensional (2D) electronic spectra from living cultures of the purple bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, acquired using gradient assisted photon echo spectroscopy. Diagonal slices through the 2D lineshape of the LH1 stimulated emission/ground state bleach feature reveal a resolvable higher energy population within the B875 manifold. The waiting time evolution of diagonal, horizontal, and vertical slices through the 2D lineshape shows a sub-100 fs intra-complex relaxation as this higher energy population red shifts. The absorption (855 nm) of this higher lying sub-population of B875 before it has red shifted optimizes spectral overlap between the LH1 B875 band and the B850 band of LH2. Access to an energetically broad distribution of excitonic states	2018	6	19	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Bacterial Proteins; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sohail	Sara H
28968216	10.14715/cmb/2017.63.6.19	Exploitation of dark fermented effluent of cheese whey by co-culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Bacillus firmus for photo-hydrogen production.	In this study photo-hydrogen production from cheese whey dark fermentation (DF) effluent by the co-culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides -NMBL-01 and Bacillus firmus - NMBL-03 has been reported. The effect of pH, initial chemical oxygen demand (COD) and the concentration effect of FeSO4.7H2O on photo-hydrogen production have been investigated. The end products of dark fermentation effluent of cheese whey were mainly comprised of soluble organic acids, i.e. butyric acid and lactic acid. The batch process was carried out under light intensity of 2.5 kLux at 32 .. 2oC without any addition of extra carbon and nitrogen source. The single parameter optimization studies revealed optimum pH 6.5, initial COD 4.71 g/L and supplementation of Fe2+ concentration 100 mg/L. The maximum cumulative hydrogen production and yield were found to be 469 .. 45.8 ml H2/L and 146.56 .. 14.31 ml H2/g COD reduced (67.9% reduction in COD) respectively. The mutual interactions among the process parameters were also i	2018	5	22	Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand)	Cellular and molecular biology (Noisy-le-Grand, France)	Cheese whey wastewater.; Co-culture; Photofermentation; Bacillus firmus; Butyric Acid; Carbon; Cheese; Coculture Techniques; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactic Acid; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Whey	Pandey	A
28968212	10.14715/cmb/2017.63.6.14	Effect of pH on optimization of photofermentative hydrogen production by co-culture of Rhodobacter sphaeroides-NMBL-02 and Bacillus firmus-NMBL-03.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides NMBL-02, photosynthetic purple non sulfur (PNS) bacteria and associated Bacillus firmus NMBL-03 were isolated from water sample collected from 15-20 inches beneath the surface of ponds from Northern region of India in modified Sistrom's media (120 ml) containing 3 g/L malate and 1.2 g/L ammonium sulfate. The isolation was done in air tight serum bottles (120 ml) under tungsten bulb (1.8 kLux light intensity) at 30 oC .. 2 oC. The PNS and heterotrophic bacteria associated with the culture was purified by clonal selection method and characterized by 16S rDNA sequencing. The PNS isolate was identified as Rhodobacter sphaeroides NMBL-02 (ID: 1467407, Accession BANKIT: JN256030) and associated heterotroph as Bacillus firmus NMBL-03 (Gene Bank Accession no.: JN 256029). The effect of initial medium pH on optimization of hydrogen production was investigated in batch process. The maximum hydrogen potential and hydrogen production rate was 2310 .. 55 ml/L and 4.75 ml/L c	2018	5	22	Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand)	Cellular and molecular biology (Noisy-le-Grand, France)	Co-culture; H2 production; Purple non sulfur bacteria; pH effect.; Bacillus firmus; Carbon; Coculture Techniques; Fermentation; Glutamic Acid; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; India; Light; Malates; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pandey	A
28941458	10.1134/S0006297917080053	Femtosecond Relaxation Processes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Centers.	Energy relaxation was studied with difference femtosecond spectroscopy in reaction centers of the YM210L mutant of the purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides at low temperature (90 K). A dynamical long-wavelength shift of stimulated emission of the excited state of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer P was found, which starts simultaneously with P* formation and is accompanied by a change in the spectral shape of this emission. The characteristic value of this shift was about 30..nm, and the characteristic time..about 200 fs. Difference kinetics ..A measured at fixed wavelengths demonstrate the femtosecond shift of the P* stimulated emission appearing as a dependence of these kinetics on wavelength. We found that the reported long-wavelength shift can be explained in terms of electron-vibrational relaxation of the P* excited state with time constants of vibrational and electronic relaxation of 100 and 50 fs, respectively. Alternative mechanisms of the dynamical shift of the 	2017	10	25	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Kinetics; Lasers, Solid-State; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Yakovlev	A G
28935961	10.1038/s41598-017-10413-y	Field-cycling NMR with high-resolution detection under magic-angle spinning: determination of field-window for nuclear hyperpolarization in a photosynthetic reaction center.	Several parameters in NMR depend on the magnetic field strength. Field-cycling NMR is an elegant way to explore the field dependence of these properties. The technique is well developed for solution state and in relaxometry. Here, a shuttle system with magic-angle spinning (MAS) detection is presented to allow for field-dependent studies on solids. The function of this system is demonstrated by exploring the magnetic field dependence of the solid-state photochemically induced nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) effect. The effect allows for strong nuclear spin-hyperpolarization in light-induced spin-correlated radical pairs (SCRPs) under solid-state conditions. To this end, <sup>13</sup>C MAS NMR is applied to a photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides wildtype (WT). For induction of the effect in the stray field of the magnet and its subsequent observation at 9.4...T under MAS NMR conditions, the sample is shuttled by the use of an aerody	2019	11	20	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	NA	Gr..sing	Daniel
28935692	10.1073/pnas.1703584114	Probing structure-function relationships in early events in photosynthesis using a chimeric photocomplex.	The native core light-harvesting complex (LH1) from the thermophilic purple phototrophic bacterium Thermochromatium tepidum requires Ca<sup>2+</sup> for its thermal stability and characteristic absorption maximum at 915 nm. To explore the role of specific amino acid residues of the LH1 polypeptides in Ca-binding behavior, we constructed a genetic system for heterologously expressing the Tch. tepidum LH1 complex in an engineered Rhodobacter sphaeroides mutant strain. This system contained a chimeric pufBALM gene cluster (pufBA from Tch. tepidum and pufLM from Rba. sphaeroides) and was subsequently deployed for introducing site-directed mutations on the LH1 polypeptides. All mutant strains were capable of phototrophic (anoxic/light) growth. The heterologously expressed Tch. tepidum wild-type LH1 complex was isolated in a reaction center (RC)-associated form and displayed the characteristic absorption properties of this thermo	2018	6	26	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Ca binding; Qy transition; Thermochromatium tepidum; light harvesting; photosynthesis; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Calcium; Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structure-Activity Relationship	Nagashima	Kenji V P
28929590	10.1002/cssc.201701390	Enhancing Photocurrent Generation in Photosynthetic Reaction Center-Based Photoelectrochemical Cells with Biomimetic DNA Antenna.	Three- to four-times higher performance of biohybrid photoelectrochemical cells with photosynthetic reaction centers (RC) has been achieved by using a DNA-based biomimetic antenna. Synthetic dyes Cy3 and Cy5 were chosen and strategically placed in the anntena in such a way that they can collect additional light energy in the visible region of the solar spectrum and transfer it to RC through F..rster resonance energy transfer (FRET). The antenna, a DNA templated multiple dye system, is attached to each Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC near the primary donor, P, to facilitate the energy transfer process. Excitation with a broad light spectrum (approximating sunlight) triggers a cascade of excitation energy transfer from Cy3 to Cy5 to P, and also directly from Cy5 to P. This additional excitation energy increases the RC absorbance cross-section in the visible and thus the performance of the photoelectrochemical cells. DNA-based biomimetic antennas offer a tunable, modular light-harvesting syste	2018	7	27	ChemSusChem	ChemSusChem	DNA; artificial photosynthesis; energy transfer; light harvesting; photoelectrochemical cells; Biomimetic Materials; DNA; Electricity; Energy Transfer; Fluorescent Dyes; Molecular Structure; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy; Structure-Activity Relationship; Sunlight	Carey	Anne-Marie
28831654	10.1007/s11120-017-0433-4	Redox potentials of ubiquinone, menaquinone, phylloquinone, and plastoquinone in aqueous solution.	Quinones serve as redox active cofactors in bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers: photosystem I, photosystem II, cytochrome bc 1, and cytochrome b 6 f. In particular, ubiquinone is ubiquitous in animals and most bacteria and plays a key role in several cellular processes, e.g., mitochondrial electron transport. Their experimentally measured redox potential values for one-electron reduction E m(Q/Q<sup>..-</sup>) were already reported in dimethylformamide (DMF) versus saturated calomel electrode but not in water versus normal hydrogen electrode (NHE). We calculated E m(Q/Q<sup>..-</sup>) of 1,4-quinones using a quantum chemical approach. The calculated energy differences of reduction of Q to Q<sup>..-</sup> in DMF and water for 1,4-quinone derivatives correlated highly with the experimentally measured E m(Q/Q<sup>..-</sup>) in DMF and water, respectively. E m(Q/Q<sup>..-</sup>) were calculated to be -163..mV for ubiq	2018	6	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers; Blastochloris viridis; Cytochrome b 6 f; Cytochrome bc 1; Photosystem II; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Alphaproteobacteria; Molecular Structure; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Plastoquinone; Solutions; Ubiquinone; Vitamin K 1; Vitamin K 2	Kishi	Shinnosuke
28826909	10.1016/j.bbabio.2017.08.009	Engineering of a calcium-ion binding site into the RC-LH1-PufX complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides to enable ion-dependent spectral red-shifting.	The reaction centre-light harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) complex of Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum has a unique calcium-ion binding site that enhances thermal stability and red-shifts the absorption of LH1 from 880nm to 915nm in the presence of calcium-ions. The LH1 antenna of mesophilic species of phototrophic bacteria such as Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides does not possess such properties. We have engineered calcium-ion binding into the LH1 antenna of Rba. sphaeroides by progressively modifying the native LH1 polypeptides with sequences from Tch. tepidum. We show that acquisition of the C-terminal domains from LH1 .. and .. of Tch. tepidum is sufficient to activate calcium-ion binding and the extent of red-shifting increases with the proportion of Tch. tepidum sequence incorporated. However, full exchange of the LH1 polypeptides with those of Tch. tepidum results in misassembled core complexes. Isolated .. and .. polypeptides from our most successful mutant were reconstituted in vitro with B	2017	11	30	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Antenna complex; Calcium-ion binding; Protein engineering; Reaction centre; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermochromatium tepidum; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Calcium; Carotenoids; Cations, Divalent; Chromatiaceae; Gene Expression; Genetic Engineering; Mutant Chimeric Proteins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Xanthophylls	Swainsbury	David J K
28821545	10.1128/AEM.01481-17	Heterologous Production of the Photosynthetic Reaction Center and Light Harvesting 1 Complexes of the Thermophile Thermochromatium tepidum in the Mesophile Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Thermal Stability of a Hybrid Core Complex.	The photosynthetic complexes of the thermophile Thermochromatium tepidum are of considerable interest in biohybrid solar cell applications because of the ability of thermophilic proteins to tolerate elevated temperatures. Synthetic operons encoding reaction center (RC) and light harvesting 1 (LH1) pigment-protein complexes of T. tepidum were expressed in the mesophile Rhodobacter sphaeroides The T. tepidum RC (TRC) was assembled and was found to be functional with the addition of menadione to populate the QA pocket. The production of T. tepidum LH1 (TLH1) was increased by selection of a phototrophy-capable mutant after UV irradiation mutagenesis, which yielded a hybrid RC-TLH1 core complex consisting of the R. sphaeroides RC and T. tepidum TLH1, confirmed by the absorbance peak of TLH1 at 915 nm. Affinity chromatography partial purification and subsequent sucrose gradient analysis of the hybrid RC-TLH1 core complex indicated t	2017	12	14	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	R. sphaeroides; T. tepidum; core complex; gene heterologous expression; light harvesting; mesophile; photosynthesis; reaction center; thermophile; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatiaceae; Dimerization; Gene Expression; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Operon; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Jun	D
28813640	10.1016/j.bbi.2017.08.012	Innate immune signaling in the ventral tegmental area contributes to drug-primed reinstatement of cocaine seeking.	Cocaine addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder characterized by persistent perturbations to an organism's homeostatic processes that result in maladaptive drug seeking. Although considerable attention has been directed at the consequences of neuronal changes following chronic cocaine taking, few studies have examined the role of microglia, the brain's resident immune cells, following chronic cocaine administration. Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4) is a molecular pattern receptor that recognizes pathogens, danger signals, and xenobiotics and induces proinflammatory signaling in the central nervous system. TLR4 is generally considered to be expressed primarily by microglia. Here, we used a rodent model of cocaine addiction to investigate the role of TLR4 in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in cocaine seeking. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine in daily 2-h sessions for 15days. Following self-administration, rats underwent extinction training and were tested in	2018	7	11	Brain Behav Immun	Brain, behavior, and immunity	Addiction; Cocaine; Cytokines; Interleukin-1..; Neuroinflammation; Animals; Cocaine; Conditioning, Operant; Drug-Seeking Behavior; Encephalitis; Extinction, Psychological; Immunity, Innate; Interleukin-1beta; Male; RNA, Messenger; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Self Administration; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Ventral Tegmental Area	Brown	Kyle T
28808097	10.1098/rstb.2016.0378	Photoprotection through ultrafast charge recombination in photochemical reaction centres under oxidizing conditions.	Engineering natural photosynthesis to address predicted shortfalls in food and energy supply requires a detailed understanding of its molecular basis and the intrinsic photoprotective mechanisms that operate under fluctuating environmental conditions. Long-lived triplet or singlet excited electronic states have the potential to cause photodamage, particularly in the presence of oxygen, and so a variety of mechanisms exist to prevent formation of such states or safely dissipate their energy. Here, we report a dramatic difference in spectral evolution in fully reduced and partially oxidized Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centres (RCs) following excitation of the monomeric bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) cofactors at 805 nm. Three types of preparation were studied, including RCs purified as protein/lipid nanodiscs using the copolymer styrene maleic acid. In fully reduced RCs such excitation produces membrane-spanning charge separation. In preparations of partially oxidized RCs the spe	2018	4	4	Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci	Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences	charge recombination; photoprotection; reaction centre; styrene maleic acid; ultrafast spectroscopy; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Maleates; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polystyrenes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ma	Fei
28760442	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.07.032	Integrating a light-driven coenzyme regeneration system by expression of an alcohol dehydrogenase in phototrophic bacteria for synthesis of chiral alcohol.	Herein, we reported that Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides) can be engineered by heterologous expression of an alcohol dehydrogenase (adh) from Leifsonia sp. to build a light-driven cofactor regeneration system for synthesis of chiral alcohol. The model substrate, 3'-chloroacetophenone, can be reduced by the engineered R. sphaeroides to (R)-1-(3-chlorophenyl) ethanol with an enantiomeric excess (e.e.) value of more than 99% in an n-hexane/aqueous biphasic media. This system, which is fully controlled by light, exhibited potential power to be an alternative cofactor regeneration platform for cheap synthesis of various chiral alcohols via the cloning other oxidoreductases with diverse characteristics.	2018	5	14	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Asymmetric synthesis; Chiral alcohols; NAD(P)H regeneration; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Actinobacteria; Alcohol Dehydrogenase; Alcohols; Bacterial Proteins; Biotechnology; Light; Metabolic Engineering; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stereoisomerism; omega-Chloroacetophenone	Ma	Xiaoqiang
28751090	10.1016/j.bbamem.2017.07.011	The effectiveness of styrene-maleic acid (SMA) copolymers for solubilisation of integral membrane proteins from SMA-accessible and SMA-resistant membranes.	Solubilisation of biological lipid bilayer membranes for analysis of their protein complement has traditionally been carried out using detergents, but there is increasing interest in the use of amphiphilic copolymers such as styrene maleic acid (SMA) for the solubilisation, purification and characterisation of integral membrane proteins in the form of protein/lipid nanodiscs. Here we survey the effectiveness of various commercially-available formulations of the SMA copolymer in solubilising Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centres (RCs) from photosynthetic membranes. We find that formulations of SMA with a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio of styrene to maleic acid are almost as effective as detergent in solubilising RCs, with the best solubilisation by short chain variants (&lt;30kDa weight average molecular weight). The effectiveness of 10kDa 2:1 and 3:1 formulations of SMA to solubilise RCs gradually declined when genetically-encoded coiled-coil bundles were used to artificially tether normally mono	2017	12	5	Biochim Biophys Acta Biomembr	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Biomembranes	Detergent; Light harvesting; Membrane protein; Nanodisc; Reaction centre; Styrene...maleic acid; Detergents; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipid Bilayers; Lipids; Maleates; Membrane Proteins; Membranes; Polymers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Styrene	Swainsbury	David J K
28746728	10.1111/php.12812	Analysis of the Electronic Structure of the Special Pair of a Bacterial Photosynthetic Reaction Center by <sup>13</sup> C Photochemically Induced Dynamic Nuclear Polarization Magic-Angle Spinning NMR Using a Double-Quantum Axis.	The origin of the functional symmetry break in bacterial photosynthesis challenges since several decades. Although structurally very similar, the two branches of cofactors in the reaction center (RC) protein complex act very differently. Upon photochemical excitation, an electron is transported along one branch, while the other remains inactive. Photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) magic-angle spinning (MAS) <sup>13</sup> C NMR revealed that the two bacteriochlorophyll cofactors forming the "Special Pair" donor dimer are already well distinguished in the electronic ground state. These previous studies are relying solely on <sup>13</sup> C-<sup>13</sup> C correlation experiments as radio-frequency-driven recoupling (RFDR) and dipolar-assisted rotational resonance (DARR). Obviously, the chemical-shift assignment is difficult in a dimer of tetrapyrrole macrocycles, having eight pyrrole rings of similar chemical shifts. To overcome this problem, an INADEQUATE 	2018	11	26	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	NA	Najdanova	Marija
28744485	10.1128/mSystems.00015-17	Combining Genome-Scale Experimental and Computational Methods To Identify Essential Genes in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Rhodobacter..sphaeroides is one of the best-studied alphaproteobacteria from biochemical, genetic, and genomic perspectives. To gain a better systems-level understanding of this organism, we generated a large transposon mutant library and used transposon sequencing (Tn-seq) to identify genes that are essential under several growth conditions. Using newly developed Tn-seq analysis software (TSAS), we identified 493 genes as essential for aerobic growth on a rich medium. We then used the mutant library to identify conditionally essential genes under two laboratory growth conditions, identifying 85 additional genes required for aerobic growth in a minimal medium and 31 additional genes required for photosynthetic growth. In all instances, our analyses confirmed essentiality for many known genes and identified genes not previously considered to be essential. We used the resulting Tn-seq data to refine and improve a genome-scale metabolic network model (GEM) for R...sphaeroides</i	2020	9	30	mSystems	mSystems	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tn-seq; gene disruption; genomics; metabolic modeling; metabolism; photosynthetic bacteria; proteobacteria	Burger	Brian T
28739674	10.1128/JB.00366-17	Essential Role of the Cytoplasmic Chemoreceptor TlpT in the <i>De Novo</i> Formation of Chemosensory Complexes in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bacterial chemosensory proteins form large hexagonal arrays. Several key features of chemotactic signaling depend on these large arrays, namely, cooperativity between receptors, sensitivity, integration of different signals, and adaptation. The best-studied arrays are the membrane-associated arrays found in most bacteria. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two spatially distinct chemosensory arrays, one is transmembrane and the other is cytoplasmic. These two arrays work together to control a single flagellum. Deletion of one of the soluble chemoreceptors, TlpT, results in the loss of the formation of the cytoplasmic array. Here, we show the expression of TlpT in a tlpT deletion background results in the reformation of the cytoplasmic array. The number of arrays formed is dependent on the cell length, indicating spatial limitations on the number of arrays in a cell and stochastic assembly. Deletion of PpfA, a protein required for the positioning and segregation of the cytoplasmi	2017	10	3	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; chemoreceptor; chemotaxis; protein positioning; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; Membrane Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Jones	Christopher W
28730325	10.1007/s00449-017-1815-x	Single-stage photofermentative biohydrogen production from sugar beet molasses by different purple non-sulfur bacteria.	Biohydrogen production via fermentative routes offers considerable advantages in waste recycling and sustainable energy production. This can be realized by single-stage dark or photofermentative processes, or by a two-stage integrated process; the latter offering the higher production yields due to complete conversion of sugar substrates into H2 and CO2. However, problems arising from the integration of these two processes limit its scale-up and implementation. Hence, high efficiency one-step fermentative biohydrogen production processes from sugar-rich wastes are preferable. In this study, different strains of purple non-sulfur bacteria were investigated for their biohydrogen production capacity on pure sucrose and sugar beet molasses, and the feasibility of single-stage photofermentative biohydrogen production was evaluated. A single-stage photofermentation process was carried out using four different strains of purple non-sulfur bacteria (Rhodobacter capsulatus	2018	7	20	Bioprocess Biosyst Eng	Bioprocess and biosystems engineering	Biohydrogen; Purple non-sulfur bacterium; Single-stage photofermentation; Sucrose; Sugar beet molasses; Beta vulgaris; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Molasses; Photochemistry; Rhodobacter; Species Specificity; Sucrose	Sagir	Emrah
28692405	10.1080/15476286.2017.1342933	6S RNA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides: 6S RNA and pRNA transcript levels peak in late exponential phase and gene deletion causes a high salt stress phenotype.	The function of 6S RNA, a global regulator of transcription, was studied in the photosynthetic ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The cellular levels of R. sphaeroides 6S RNA peak toward the transition to stationary phase and strongly decrease during extended stationary phase. The synthesis of so-called product RNA transcripts (mainly 12-16-mers) on 6S RNA as template by RNA polymerase was found to be highest in late exponential phase. Product RNA ... 13-mers are expected to trigger the dissociation of 6S RNA:RNA polymerase complexes. A 6S RNA deletion in R. sphaeroides had no impact on growth under various metabolic and oxidative stress conditions (with the possible exception of tert-butyl hydroperoxide stress). However, the 6S RNA knockout resulted in a robust growth defect under high salt stress (0.25..M NaCl). Remarkably, the sspA gene encoding the putative salt stress-induced membrane protein SspA and located immediately downstream of the 6S RNA (ssrS) gene on the antisen	2018	7	19	RNA Biol	RNA biology	(photo)oxidative stress; 6S RNA; Northern blot analysis; RNA-Seq; high salt stress; pRNA synthesis; ssrS deletion; Adhesins, Bacterial; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Deletion; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Phenotype; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Messenger; RNA, Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Chloride; Stress, Physiological; Transcription, Genetic	Elkina	Daria
28690610	10.3389/fimmu.2017.00719	Toll-Like Receptor 4 Inhibition Improves Oxidative Stress and Mitochondrial Health in Isoproterenol-Induced Cardiac Hypertrophy in Rats.	Inflammation remains a crucial factor for progression of cardiac diseases and cardiac hypertrophy remains an important cause of cardiac failure over all age groups. As a key regulator of inflammation, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) plays an important role in pathogenesis of cardiac diseases. Being an important regulator of innate immunity, the precise pathway of TLR4-mediated cardiac complications is yet to be established. Therefore, the primary objective of the present study was to find the role of TLR4 in cardiac hypertrophy and the molecular mechanism thereof. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced with administration of isoproterenol (5...mg/kg/day, sc). TLR4 receptor inhibitor RS-LPS (lipopolysaccharide from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides; 5.....g/day) and agonist lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (from Escherichia coli; 3.12.....g/day) were administered through osmotic pump along with isoproterenol. Cardiac hypertrophy as well as oxidative stress and mitochondrial parameters w	2019	11	20	Front Immunol	Frontiers in immunology	RS-LPS; cardiac hypertrophy; isoproterenol; lipopolysaccharide; oxidative phosphorylation; toll-like receptor 4	Katare	Parmeshwar B
28644830	10.1371/journal.pone.0179111	Optimal chemotactic responses in stochastic environments.	Although the "adaptive" strategy used by Escherichia coli has dominated our understanding of bacterial chemotaxis, the environmental conditions under which this strategy emerged is still poorly understood. In this work, we study the performance of various chemotactic strategies under a range of stochastic time- and space-varying attractant distributions in silico. We describe a novel "speculator" response in which the bacterium compare the current attractant concentration to the long-term average; if it is higher then they tumble persistently, while if it is lower than the average, bacteria swim away in search of more favorable conditions. We demonstrate how this response explains the experimental behavior of aerobically-grown Rhodobacter sphaeroides and that under spatially complex but slowly-changing nutrient conditions the speculator response is as effective as the adaptive strategy of E. coli.	2017	9	20	PLoS One	PloS one	Chemotaxis; Escherichia coli; Internet; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Software; Stochastic Processes; Swimming	God..ny	Martin
28634761	10.1007/s00216-017-0444-1	Unveiling the compositional variety of cardiolipins in Rhodobacter sphaeroides by liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization and multistage collision-induced dissociation mass spectrometry.	Cardiolipins (CL) contained in the lipid extracts of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides (strain R26) were systematically characterized by reversed-phase liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, performed in single (MS), tandem (MS/MS) and sequential (MS<sup>3</sup>) modes using a linear ion trap mass spectrometer. The total number of carbon atoms and C=C bonds of each CL and, subsequently, those related to each of the constituting phosphatidic acid (PA) units, along with the location of the latter on the central glycerol backbone, were inferred from MS and MS/MS data, respectively. Moreover, the composition and location of both acyl chains on the glycerol backbone of each PA unit was obtained by MS<sup>3</sup> measurements, an approach used for the first time for the structural elucidation of CL in R. sphaeroides. As a result, an unprecedented profile of CL in this bacterium was obtained, with 27 main species characterized, many of w	2018	5	2	Anal Bioanal Chem	Analytical and bioanalytical chemistry	Bacterial extract; Cardiolipins; RP liquid chromatography; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tandem MS; Cardiolipins; Chromatography, Liquid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization	Granafei	Sara
28633072	10.1016/j.intimp.2017.06.006	Roles of serum in innate immune responses of human leukocytes to synthetic lipopeptide.	Tripalmitoyl-S-glyceryl-l-Cys-Ser-(Lys)4 (Pam3CSK4) is a highly conserved molecular motif found in various classes of lipoproteins. The requirement for leukocyte to respond to synthetic Pam3CSK4 were studied. Pam3CSK4 primed neutrophils for a respiratory burst in a serum-dependent manner. Pam3CSK4 upregulated CD11b, CD14, and cytochrome b558, and downregulated Leu-8. Treatment of neutrophils with anti-CD14 antibodies and treatment of serum with anti-LPS binding protein (LBP) antibodies resulted in the inhibition of priming for respiratory burst by Pam3CSK4. It should be noted that LBP could not replicate the effects of serum in priming of neutrophils for respiratory burst by Pam3CSK4. Serum LBP bound to immobilized Pam3CSK4. Pam3CSK4 induced the interleukin-8 (IL-8) production by leukocytes 	2018	5	9	Int Immunopharmacol	International immunopharmacology	LPS binding protein; Neutrophil; Pam(3)CSK(4); Priming; Respiratory burst; Serum; Acute-Phase Proteins; Antibodies; Carrier Proteins; Cells, Cultured; Humans; Immunity, Innate; Interleukin-8; Lipid A; Lipopeptides; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Membrane Glycoproteins; Neutrophil Activation; Neutrophils; Respiratory Burst; Serum	Sanui	Terukazu
28617267	10.2166/wst.2016.608	Removal of cadmium and zinc from contaminated wastewater using Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides was used for bioremediation of wastewater polluted with cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn). The tolerance of the microorganism to selected heavy metals (HMs), as well as the effects of pH, temperature and inoculum size on the removal rate, was investigated. The remediation effects of R. sphaeroides were analysed at different initial concentrations of HMs. Bioremediation mechanisms were thoroughly discussed based on the results from the cell characterisation analysis. Cd and Zn could inhibit the growth of R. sphaeroides. However, Cd was more toxic than Zn, with corresponding EC50 values of 5.34 and 69.79 mg L<sup>-1</sup>. Temperature and pH had greater influence on the removal rate of HMs than inoculum size. The optimal conditions for temperature and pH were 35 ..C-40 ..C and pH 7, respectively. Initial concentration of HMs and remediation time also affected the removal rate. Rhodobacter sphaeroides had a relatively higher remediation effect under the present	2017	8	17	Water Sci Technol	Water science and technology : a journal of the International Association on Water Pollution Research	Biodegradation, Environmental; Cadmium; Microscopy, Electron, Scanning; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Waste Water; Water Pollutants, Chemical; Zinc	Li	Xiaomin
28605596	10.1021/acs.jpcb.7b03373	Mechanism of Triplet Energy Transfer in Photosynthetic Bacterial Reaction Centers.	In purple bacterial reaction centers, triplet excitation energy transfer occurs from the primary donor P, a bacteriochlorophyll dimer, to a neighboring carotenoid to prevent photodamage from the generation of reactive oxygen species. The BB bacteriochlorophyll molecule that lies between P and the carotenoid on the inactive electron transfer branch is involved in triplet energy transfer between P and the carotenoid. To expand the high-resolution spectral and kinetic information available for describing the mechanism, we investigated the triplet excited state formation and energy transfer pathways in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using pump-probe transient absorption spectroscopy over a broad spectral region on the nanosecond to microsecond time scale at both room temperature and at 77 K. Wild-type reaction centers were compared with a reaction center mutant (M182HL) in which BB is replaced by a bacteriopheophytin (..), as well as to reaction center	2018	5	8	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Mandal	Sarthak
28601078	10.1134/S0006297917060050	An Alternative Pathway of Light-Induced Transmembrane Electron Transfer in Photosynthetic Reaction Centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In the absorption spectrum of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers, a minor absorption band was found with a maximum at 1053..nm. The amplitude of this band is ~10,000 times less and its half-width is comparable to that of the long-wavelength absorption band of the primary electron donor P870. When the primary electron donor is excited by femtosecond light pulses at 870..nm, the absorption band at 1053..nm is increased manifold during the earliest stages of charge separation. The growth of this absorption band in difference absorption spectra precedes the appearance of stimulated emission at 935..nm and the appearance of the absorption band of anion-radical BA<sup>-</sup> at 1020..nm, reported earlier by several researchers. When reaction centers are illuminated with 1064..nm light, the absorption spectrum undergoes changes indicating reduction of the primary electron acceptor QA, with the primary electron donor P870 remaining neutral. Th	2017	6	21	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Electron Transport; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khatypov	R A
28587931	10.1016/j.bbabio.2017.06.001	The C-terminus of PufX plays a key role in dimerisation and assembly of the reaction center light-harvesting 1 complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In bacterial photosynthesis reaction center-light-harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) complexes trap absorbed solar energy by generating a charge separated state. Subsequent electron and proton transfers form a quinol, destined to diffuse to the cytochrome bc1 complex. In bacteria such as Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides and Rba. capsulatus the PufX polypeptide creates a channel for quinone/quinol traffic across the LH1 complex that surrounds the RC, and it is therefore essential for photosynthetic growth. PufX also plays a key role in dimerization of the RC-LH1-PufX core complex, and the structure of the Rba. sphaeroides complex shows that the PufX C-terminus, particularly the region from X49-X53, likely mediates association of core monomers. To investigate this putative interaction we analysed mutations PufX R49L, PufX R53L, PufX R49/53L and PufX G52L by measuring photosynthetic growth, fractionation of detergent-solubilised membranes, formation of 2-D crystals and electron microscopy. We	2017	10	25	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Bacterial photosynthesis; Electron microscopy; Light-harvesting core complex; PufX; Quinones; Reaction centres; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Single particle analysis; Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Crystallization; Dimerization; Hydroquinones; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Microscopy, Electron; Models, Molecular; Mutation, Missense; Point Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protein Domains; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
28540587	10.1007/s11120-017-0404-9	Removal of the H subunit results in enhanced exposure of the semiquinone sites in the LM dimer from Rhodobacter sphaeroides to oxidation by ferricyanide and by O<sub>2</sub>.	Bacterial reaction centers (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been widely used to functionalize electrodes and to generate photocurrent. However, in most studies, direct electron transfer from the semiquinone to the electrode was not observed because the H subunit of the RC shields the semiquinone. It is demonstrated in the current work that removal of the H subunit effectively exposes the semiquinone sites in the LM dimer. This is demonstrated by measuring the second-order rate constant for the reaction between ferricyanide and the anionic semiquinone Q A<sup>-</sup> formed by an actinic flash. The rate constant increases 1000-fold for Q A<sup>-</sup> oxidation by ferricyanide in the LM dimer compared to the intact RC. The second-order rate constant approaches the diffusion limit of 6........10<sup>9</sup> M<sup>-1</sup>..s<sup>-1</sup> at low pH, but it decreases steadily when the pH is above 6.5. This pH dependence suggests that the protonation state of the	2018	3	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Back reaction; Bacterial reaction center; Difference spectrum; Electron transfer kinetics; Electrostatic interactions; Ferricyanide; LM dimer; Oxygen; Semiquinone; Benzoquinones; Electron Transport; Electrons; Ferricyanides; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Light; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Protein Multimerization; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Chloride	Sun	Chang
28536938	10.1007/s10529-017-2362-x	Enhancement of 5-aminolevulinic acid production by metabolic engineering of the glycine biosynthesis pathway in Corynebacterium glutamicum.	To construct a strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum capable of efficiently producing 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) via the C4 pathway by modification of serine and glycine pathway using glucose as sole carbon source. The recombinant C. glutamicum strain AP2 harboring a codon-optimized hemA gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides was used as host strain for 5-ALA production. A plasmid harboring the serine operon, which contained serB, serC and the site-specific mutant serA <sup>..197</sup> , was constructed and introduced into C. glutamicumAP2, leading to an increase of 70% in 5-ALA production. Further overexpression of the glyA gene increased production of 5-ALA by 150% over the control. 5-ALA production was thus significantly enhanced by engineering the glycine biosynthetic pathway. C.glutamicum AG3 produced 3.4......0.2..g 5-ALA/l in shake-flask cultures in CGIIIM medium with the addition of 7.5..g glycine/l. This is the first report of remodeling the serine and glycine biosynthetic pathwa	2018	4	12	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	5-Aminolevulinic acid; Corynebacterium glutamicum; Glycine synthesis; Serine pathway; Aminolevulinic Acid; Biosynthetic Pathways; Carbon; Corynebacterium glutamicum; Gene Expression; Genetic Vectors; Glucose; Glycine; Metabolic Engineering; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Serine	Zou	Yalan
28536286	10.1128/mBio.00513-17	Mutations That Alter the Bacterial Cell Envelope Increase Lipid Production.	Lipids from microbes offer a promising source of renewable alternatives to petroleum-derived compounds. In particular, oleaginous microbes are of interest because they accumulate a large fraction of their biomass as lipids. In this study, we analyzed genetic changes that alter lipid accumulation in Rhodobacter sphaeroides By screening an R...sphaeroides Tn5 mutant library for insertions that increased fatty acid content, we identified 10 high-lipid (HL) mutants for further characterization. These HL mutants exhibited increased sensitivity to drugs that target the bacterial cell envelope and changes in shape, and some had the ability to secrete lipids, with two HL mutants accumulating ~60% of their total lipids extracellularly. When one of the highest-lipid-secreting strains was grown in a fed-batch bioreactor, its lipid content was comparable to that of oleaginous microbes, with the majority of the lipids secreted into the medium. Based on the properties of these H	2018	2	12	mBio	mBio	Rhodobacter; bioreactors; cell envelope; fatty acids; lipid synthesis; two-component regulatory systems; Cell Wall; DNA Transposable Elements; Genetic Testing; Lipid Metabolism; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Mutation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lemmer	Kimberly C
28528494	10.1007/s11120-017-0397-4	Carotenoid to bacteriochlorophyll energy transfer in the RC-LH1-PufX complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing the extended conjugation keto-carotenoid diketospirilloxanthin.	RC-LH1-PufX complexes from a genetically modified strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides that accumulates carotenoids with very long conjugation were studied by ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy. The complexes predominantly bind the carotenoid diketospirilloxanthin, constituting about 75% of the total carotenoids, which has 13 conjugated C=C bonds, and the conjugation is further extended to two terminal keto groups. Excitation of diketospirilloxanthin in the RC-LH1-PufX complex demonstrates fully functional energy transfer from diketospirilloxanthin to BChl a in the LH1 antenna. As for other purple bacterial LH complexes having carotenoids with long conjugation, the main energy transfer route is via the S2-Qx pathway. However, in contrast to LH2 complexes binding diketospirilloxanthin, in RC-LH1-PufX we observe an additional, minor energy transfer pathway associated with the S1 state of diketospirilloxanthin. By comparing the spectral properties of	2018	8	10	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Carotenoids; Energy transfer; Intramolecular charge transfer state; Light-harvesting; Purple bacteria; Ultrafast spectroscopy; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Processing, Computer-Assisted; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Xanthophylls	..louf	V..clav
28507242	10.1128/JB.00249-17	An RpoHI-Dependent Response Promotes Outgrowth after Extended Stationary Phase in the Alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Under unfavorable growth conditions, bacteria enter stationary phase and can maintain cell viability over prolonged periods with no increase in cell number. To obtain insights into the regulatory mechanisms that allow bacteria to resume growth when conditions become favorable again (outgrowth), we performed global transcriptome analyses at different stages of growth for the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides The majority of genes were not differentially expressed across growth phases. After a short stationary phase (about 20 h after growth starts to slow down), only 7% of the genes showed altered expression (fold change of &gt;1.6 or less than -1.6, corresponding to a log2 fold change of &gt;0.65 or less than -0.65, respectively) compared to expression at exponential phase. Outgrowth induced a distinct response in gene expression which was strongly influenced by the length of the preceding stationary phase. After a long stationary phase (about 64 h after gro	2017	7	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Alphaproteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; alternative sigma factors; gene regulation; growth adaptation; growth phases; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Cell Division; Cell Survival; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptional Activation; Transcriptome	Remes	B
28471051	10.1002/glia.23151	A presumed antagonistic LPS identifies distinct functional organization of TLR4 in mouse microglia.	Microglia as principle innate immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS) are the first line of defense against invading pathogens. They are capable of sensing infections through diverse receptors, such as Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). This receptor is best known for its ability to recognize bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a causative agent of gram-negative sepsis and septic shock. A putative, naturally occurring antagonist of TLR4 derives from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. However, the antagonistic potential of R. sphaeroides LPS (Rs-LPS) is no universal feature, since several studies suggested agonistic rather than antagonistic actions of this molecule depending on the investigated mammalian species. Here we show the agonistic versus antagonistic potential of Rs-LPS in primary mouse microglia. We demonstrate that Rs-LPS efficiently induces the release of cytokines and chemokines, which depends on TLR4, MyD88, and TRIF, but not CD14. Furthermore, Rs-LPS	2018	3	7	Glia	Glia	MyD88; Rs-LPS; TRIF; chemokines; cytokines; inflammation; monocytes; neutrophils; Adaptor Proteins, Vesicular Transport; Animals; Animals, Newborn; Brain; Cells, Cultured; Corpus Striatum; Cytokines; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Lipopolysaccharide Receptors; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Transgenic; Microglia; Myelin Sheath; Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88; Phagocytosis; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Up-Regulation	D..ring	Christin
28469140	10.1038/s41598-017-00802-8	Mitochondria-targeted antioxidants as highly effective antibiotics.	Mitochondria-targeted antioxidants are known to alleviate mitochondrial oxidative damage that is associated with a variety of diseases. Here, we showed that SkQ1, a decyltriphenyl phosphonium cation conjugated to a quinone moiety, exhibited strong antibacterial activity towards Gram-positive Bacillus subtilis, Mycobacterium sp. and Staphylococcus aureus and Gram-negative Photobacterium phosphoreum and Rhodobacter sphaeroides in submicromolar and micromolar concentrations. SkQ1 exhibited less antibiotic activity towards Escherichia coli due to the presence of the highly effective multidrug resistance pump AcrAB-TolC. E. coli mutants lacking AcrAB-TolC showed similar SkQ1 sensitivity, as B. subtilis. Lowering of the bacterial membrane potential by SkQ1 might be involved in the mechanism of its bactericidal action. No significant cytotoxic effect on mammalian cells was observed at bacteriotoxic concentrations of SkQ1. Therefore, SkQ1 may be effective in protection of the infected mammals 	2018	9	12	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Antioxidants; Bacillus subtilis; Escherichia coli; HeLa Cells; Humans; Mitochondria; Mycobacterium; Photobacterium; Plastoquinone; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Staphylococcus aureus	Nazarov	Pavel A
28465227	10.1016/j.brainres.2017.04.015	Bovine lactoferrin reduces extra-territorial facial allodynia/hyperalgesia following a trigeminal nerve injury in the rat.	There is an urgent clinical need for an effective therapeutic agent to treat neuropathic pain. This study explored whether intrathecal administration of bovine lactoferrin (bLF), in combination with signal transduction pathway inhibition or an inflammatory cytokine production, results in reduced allodynia/hyperalgesia in the whisker pad area following mental nerve transection (MNT) in rats. Rats were intrathecally infused with bLF, lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS), an antagonist of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), or interleukin (IL)-18 binding protein (BP). bLF attenuated allodynia/hyperalgesia and blocked upregulation of phosphorylated (p)-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), p-nuclear factor (NF)-..B p65, p-I..B kinase, and IL-18 in the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc). Microglia expressed p-p38 and astrocytes expressed p-NF-..B p65 in the Vc following MNT. LPS-RS had the same effects as bLF, except for attenuation of p-NF-..B p65. IL-18BP attenuated a	2018	4	12	Brain Res	Brain research	Allodynia/hyperalgesia; Bovine lactoferrin; IL-18; Mental nerve transection; NF-..B p65; p38 MAPK; Analgesics, Non-Narcotic; Animals; Astrocytes; Cattle; Disease Models, Animal; Facial Pain; Hyperalgesia; Interleukin-18; Lactoferrin; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Microglia; Neuralgia; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trigeminal Nerve Injuries; Vibrissae	Horie	Kayo
28461447	10.1128/JB.00183-17	Bacterial PerO Permeases Transport Sulfate and Related Oxyanions.	Rhodobacter capsulatus synthesizes the high-affinity ABC transporters CysTWA and ModABC to specifically import the chemically related oxyanions sulfate and molybdate, respectively. In addition, R. capsulatus has the low-affinity permease PerO acting as a general oxyanion transporter, whose elimination increases tolerance to molybdate and tungstate. Although PerO-like permeases are widespread in bacteria, their function has not been examined in any other species to date. Here, we present evidence that PerO permeases from the alphaproteobacteria Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Dinoroseobacter shibae, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Sinorhizobium meliloti and the gammaproteobacterium Pseudomonas stutzeri functionally substitute for R. capsulatus PerO in sulfate uptake and sulfate-dependent growth, as shown by assimilation of radioactively labeled sulfate and heterologous complementation. Disruption of perO genes in A. tumefaciens</	2017	7	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	ABC transporters; PerO; Rhodobacter; molybdate; oxyanions; permease; sulfate; transport; tungstate; Anions; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic; Membrane Transport Proteins; Mutation; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Sulfates	Hoffmann	Marie-Christine
28438349	10.1016/j.bpc.2017.04.003	Hydrogen bonds in the vicinity of the special pair of the bacterial reaction center probed by hydrostatic high-pressure absorption spectroscopy.	Using the native bacteriochlorophyll a pigment cofactors as local probes, we investigated the response to external hydrostatic high pressure of reaction center membrane protein complexes from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Wild-type and engineered complexes were used with a varied number (0, 1 or 2) of hydrogen bonds that bind the reaction center primary donor bacteriochlorophyll cofactors to the surrounding protein scaffold. A pressure-induced breakage of hydrogen bonds was established for both detergent-purified and membrane-embedded reaction centers, but at rather different pressures: between 0.2 and 0.3GPa and at about 0.55GPa, respectively. The free energy change associated with the rupture of the single hydrogen bond present in wild-type reaction centers was estimated to be equal to 13-14kJ/mol. In the mutant with two symmetrical hydrogen bonds (FM197H) a single cooperative rupture of the two bonds was observed corresponding to an about twice stronger bond,	2017	12	29	Biophys Chem	Biophysical chemistry	Cooperativity; H-bond energy; Hydrostatic high pressure; Membrane protein stability; Photosynthesis; Reaction center mutants; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrostatic Pressure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Kangur	Liina
28433189	10.1016/j.enzmictec.2017.03.005	Synergic regulation of redox potential and oxygen uptake to enhance production of coenzyme Q<sub>10</sub> in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The physiological role of Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) as an electron carrier suggests its association with redox potential. Overexpression of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase type I (gapA-1) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides elevated the NADH/NAD<sup>+</sup> ratio and meanwhile enhanced the CoQ10 content by 58%, but at the sacrifice of biomass. On the other hand, Vitreoscilla hemoglobin was heterologously expressed to enhance the oxygen uptake ability of the cells, leading to 127% improvement of biomass. Subsequent coexpression of gapA-1 and vgb resulted in a CoQ10 titer of 83.24mg/L, representing 71% improvement as compared to the control strain RspMCS. When gapA-1 and vgb genes were co-expressed in a previously created strain RspMQd [1], 163.5mg/L of CoQ10 was produced. Finally, 600mg/L of CoQ10 production was achieved in fed-batch fermentation. These results demonstrated the synergic effect of redox potential regulation and	2018	3	12	Enzyme Microb Technol	Enzyme and microbial technology	Coenzyme Q(10); Fermentation; Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase; Metabolic engineering; Vitreoscilla hemoglobin; Bacterial Proteins; Biomass; Biosynthetic Pathways; Fermentation; Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (Phosphorylating); Industrial Microbiology; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen Consumption; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Truncated Hemoglobins; Ubiquinone; Vitreoscilla	Zhu	Yongqiang
28427254	10.5713/ajas.17.0153	Supplementing <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> in the diet of lactating Holstein cows may naturally produce coenzyme Q10-enriched milk.	To examine the effects of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides) supplementation as a direct-fed microbial (DFM) on rumen fermentation in dairy cows and on coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) transition into milk, an in vitro rumen simulation batch culture and an in vivo dairy cow experiment were conducted. The characteristics of in vitro ruminal fermentation were investigated using rumen fluids from six cannulated Holstein dairy cows at 2 h post-afternoon feeding. A control treatment was included in the experiments based on a typified total mixed ration (TMR) for lactating dairy cows, which was identical to the one used in the in vivo study, plus R. sphaeroides at 0.1%, 0.3%, and 0.5% TMR dry matter. The in vivo study employed six ruminally cannulated lactating Holstein cows randomly allotted to either the control TMR (C-TMR) treatment or to a diet supplemented with a 0.5% R. sphaeroides culture (S-TMR, dry matter basis) ad libitum. The presence of R. sphaeroides was verified using denaturing grad	2020	10	1	Asian-Australas J Anim Sci	Asian-Australasian journal of animal sciences	Coenzyme Q10; Dairy Cow; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE); In vitro; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bae	Gui-Seck
28411470	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2017.03.020	Incorporation of spheroidene and spheroidenone into light-harvesting complexes from purple sulfur bacteria.	Spheroidene and spheroidenone from the non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides were incorporated into diphenylamine (DPA) LH1-RC and LH2 complexes from sulfur bacteria Allochromatium (Alc.) minutissimum and Ectothiorhodospira (Ect.) haloalkaliphila in which carotenoid (Car) biosynthesis was inhibited by ~95%. A series of biochemical characteristics of the modified LH2 complexes was studied (electrophoretic mobility, absorption and CD spectra, Car composition, Car-to-BChl energy transfer and thermal stability). It was found that the electrophoretic mobility of the complexes with incorporated Cars did not change compared to that of the control and DPA-complexes, indicating the absence of any significant change in the structure of LH complexes upon DPA-treatment and subsequent incorporation of Cars. The analysis of fluorescence excitation spectra of the spheroidene-incorporated LH2 complex (LH2:sph) and the spheroidenone-incorporated LH2 complex (LH2:sph-ne) showed that sphero	2017	9	20	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Bacteriochlorophyll; Carotenoid; Energy transfer efficiency; Incorporation of carotenoids; Light-harvesting complex; Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Circular Dichroism; Diphenylamine; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Stability; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Temperature	Ashikhmin	Aleksandr
28409433	10.1007/s11356-017-8807-x	Reusing colored industrial wastewaters in a photofermentation for enhancing biohydrogen production by using ultrasound stimulated Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	One-time ultrasonication pre-treatment of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was evaluated for improving biohydrogen production via photofermentation. Batch experiments were performed by varying ultrasonication amplitude (15, 30, and 45%) and duration (5, 10, and 15..min) using combined effluents from palm oil as well as pulp and paper mill as a single substrate. Experimental data showed that ultrasonication at amplitude 30% for 10..min (256.33..J/mL) achieved the highest biohydrogen yield of 9.982..mL H2/mLmedium with 5.125% of light efficiency. A maximum CODtotal removal of 44.7% was also obtained. However, when higher ultrasonication energy inputs (&gt;256.33..J/mL) were transmitted to the cells, biohydrogen production did not improve further. In fact, 20.6% decrease of biohydrogen yield..(as compared to the highest biohydrogen yield) was observed using the most intense ultrasonicated inoculum (472.59..J/mL). Field emission scanning electron microscope images r	2017	11	6	Environ Sci Pollut Res Int	Environmental science and pollution research international	Bioenergy; Palm oil mill effluent; Photofermentation; Pulp and paper mill effluent; Ultrasonication; Wastewater reuse; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Paper; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Waste Water	Budiman	Pretty Mori
28405861	10.1007/s11120-017-0382-y	pK <sub>a</sub> of ubiquinone, menaquinone, phylloquinone, plastoquinone, and rhodoquinone in aqueous solution.	Quinones can accept two electrons and two protons, and are involved in electron transfer and proton transfer reactions in photosynthetic reaction centers. To date, the pK a of these quinones in aqueous solution have not been reported. We calculated the pK a of the initial protonation (Q<sup>..-</sup> to QH<sup>..</sup>) and the second protonation (QH<sup>-</sup> to QH2) of 1,4-quinones using a quantum chemical approach. The calculated energy differences of the protonation reactions Q<sup>..-</sup> to QH<sup>..</sup> and QH<sup>-</sup> to QH2 in the aqueous phase for nine 1,4-quinones were highly correlated with the experimentally measured pK a(Q<sup>..-</sup>/QH<sup>..</sup>) and pK a(QH<sup>-</sup>/QH2), respectively. In the present study, we report the pK a(Q<sup>..-</sup>/QH<sup>..</sup>) and pK a(QH<sup>-</sup>/QH2) of ubiquinone, menaquinone, phylloquinone, plastoquinone, 	2018	3	30	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial photosynthetic reaction centers; Blastochloris viridis; Evolutionary transition; Green non-sulfur bacteria; Photosystem II; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Biological Evolution; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plastoquinone; Protons; Solutions; Thermodynamics; Ubiquinone; Vitamin K 1; Vitamin K 2	Hasegawa	Ryo
28389962	10.1007/978-1-4939-6927-2_22	Purification of Fla2 Flagella of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The photosynthetic bacterium R. sphaeroides expresses two flagellar systems that are encoded by two complete gene clusters that have distinct phylogenetic origins. The isolation and purification of the Filament-Hook Basal Body (F-HBB) or the Hook Basal Body (HBB) structure is a troublesome task given the complexity of this nano-machine that is composed of multiple loosely bound substructures that can be lost during the isolation and purification procedure. A successful procedure requires adjustments to the standard method established for Salmonella. In this chapter, we describe a detailed protocol to isolate and purify the Fla2 F-HBB and HBB from R. sphaeroides a photosynthetic bacterium that has a complex intracellular membrane system that frequently interferes with isolation of high-quality samples.	2018	2	6	Methods Mol Biol	Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)	Bacterial flagella; HBB purification; Motility organelle; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Basal Bodies; Flagella; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	de la Mora	Javier
28374036	10.1039/c6pp00270f	Dependence of the hydration status of bacterial light-harvesting complex 2 on polyol cosolvents.	Low molecular weight (MW) polyols are organic osmolytes influencing protein structure and activity. We have intended to investigate the effects of low MW polyols on the optical and the excited-state properties of the light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) isolated from the photosynthetic bacterium Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum, a thermophile growing at ...50 ..C. Steady state spectroscopy demonstrated that, on increasing glycerol or sorbitol fractions up to 60% (polyol/water, v/v), the visible absorption of carotenoids (Crts) remained unchanged, while the near infrared Qy absorption of bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl) at 800 nm (B800) and 850 nm (B850) varied slightly. Further increasing the fraction of glycerol (but not sorbitol) to 80% (v/v) induced distinct changes of the near infrared absorption and fluorescence spectra. Transient absorption spectroscopy revealed that, following the fast processes of BChl-to-Crt triplet energy transfer, rather weak Qy signals of B800 	2018	4	30	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Chromatiaceae; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Polymers; Solvents; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Spectrum Analysis, Raman; Water	Shi	Ying
28358305	10.3390/bios7020016	Electrochemical Field-Effect Transistor Utilization to Study the Coupling Success Rate of Photosynthetic Protein Complexes to Cytochrome c.	Due to the high internal quantum efficiency, reaction center (RC) proteins from photosynthetic organisms have been studied in various bio-photoelectrochemical devices for solar energy harvesting. In vivo, RC and cytochrome c (cyt c; a component of the biological electron transport chain) can form a cocomplex via interprotein docking. This mechanism can be used in vitro for efficient electron transfer from an electrode to the RC in a bio-photoelectrochemical device. Hence, the success rate in coupling RCs to cyt c is of great importance for practical applications in the future. In this work, we use an electrochemical transistor to study the binding of the RC to cytochrome. The shift in the transistor threshold voltage was measured in the dark and under illumination to estimate the density of cytochrome and coupled RCs on the gate of the transistor. The results show that ~33% of the cyt cs on the transistor gate were able to effectively couple with RCs. Due to	2017	4	5	Biosensors (Basel)	Biosensors	bio-photosensor; charge density; protein-protein interaction; reaction center; rhodobacter sphaeroides; Cytochromes c; Electrochemical Techniques; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Transistors, Electronic	Takshi	Arash
28301162	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b12335	Determination of Cell Doubling Times from the Return-on-Investment Time of Photosynthetic Vesicles Based on Atomic Detail Structural Models.	Cell doubling times of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides during photosynthetic growth are determined experimentally and computationally as a function of illumination. For this purpose, energy conversion processes in an intracytoplasmic membrane vesicle, the chromatophore, are described based on an atomic detail structural model. The cell doubling time and its illumination dependence are computed in terms of the return-on-investment (ROI) time of the chromatophore, determined computationally from the ATP production rate, and the mass ratio of chromatophores in the cell, determined experimentally from whole cell absorbance spectra. The ROI time is defined as the time it takes to produce enough ATP to pay for the construction of another chromatophore. The ROI time of the low light-growth chromatophore is 4.5-2.6 h for a typical illumination range of 10-100 ..mol photons m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, with corresponding cell doubling times of 8.2-3.9 h. When energy	2018	5	7	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Adenosine Triphosphate; Bacterial Chromatophores; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Time Factors	Hitchcock	Andrew
28281053	10.1007/s11356-017-8557-9	Effect of adding brewery wastewater to pulp and paper mill effluent to enhance the photofermentation process: wastewater characteristics, biohydrogen production, overall performance, and kinetic modeling.	Although a significant amount of brewery wastewater (BW) is generated during beer production, the nutrients in the BW could be reused as a potential bio-resource for biohydrogen production. Therefore, improvements in photofermentative biohydrogen production due to a combination of BW and pulp and paper mill effluent (PPME) as a mixed production medium were investigated comprehensively in this study. The experimental results showed that both the biohydrogen yield and the chemical oxygen demand removal were improved through the combination of BW and PPME. The best biohydrogen yield of 0.69..mol H2/L medium was obtained using the combination of 10..% BW..+..90..% PPME (10B90P), while the reuse of the wastewater alone (100..% BW and 100..% PPME) resulted in..42.3 and..44.0..% less biohydrogen yields than the highest yield, respectively. The greatest light efficiency was 1.97..% and was also achieved using the combination of both wastewaters at 10B90P. This study revealed the pot	2017	6	5	Environ Sci Pollut Res Int	Environmental science and pollution research international	Biohydrogen; Brewery wastewater; Pulp and paper mill effluent; Renewable energy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Wastewater reuse; Biological Oxygen Demand Analysis; Industrial Waste; Kinetics; Paper; Waste Water	Hay	Jacqueline Xiao Wen
28241731	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b10524	The Q-Cycle Mechanism of the bc<sub>1</sub> Complex: A Biologist's Perspective on Atomistic Studies.	The Q-cycle mechanism of the bc1 complex is now well enough understood to allow application of advanced computational approaches to the study of atomistic processes. In addition to the main features of the mechanism, these include control and gating of the bifurcated reaction at the Qo-site, through which generation of damaging reactive oxygen species is minimized. We report a new molecular dynamics model of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides bc1 complex implemented in a native membrane, and constructed so as to eliminate blemishes apparent in earlier Rhodobacter models. Unconstrained MD simulations after equilibration with ubiquinol and ubiquinone respectively at Qo- and Qi-sites show that substrate binding configurations at both sites are different in important details from earlier models. We also demonstrate a new Qo-site intermediate, formed in the sub-ms time range, in which semiquinone remains complexed with the reduced i	2018	5	7	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport Complex III; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Crofts	Antony R
28177317	10.1107/S2053230X17001029	Structure of Methylobacterium extorquens malyl-CoA lyase: CoA-substrate binding correlates with domain shift.	Malyl-CoA lyase (MCL) is an Mg<sup>2+</sup>-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the reversible cleavage of (2S)-4-malyl-CoA to yield acetyl-CoA and glyoxylate. MCL enzymes, which are found in a variety of bacteria, are members of the citrate lyase-like family and are involved in the assimilation of one- and two-carbon compounds. Here, the 1.56..... resolution X-ray crystal structure of MCL from Methylobacterium extorquens AM1 with bound Mg<sup>2+</sup> is presented. Structural alignment with the closely related Rhodobacter sphaeroides malyl-CoA lyase complexed with Mg<sup>2+</sup>, oxalate and CoA allows a detailed analysis of the domain motion of the enzyme caused by substrate binding. Alignment of the structures shows that a simple hinge motion centered on the conserved residues Phe268 and Thr269 moves the C-terminal domain by about 30.. relative to the rest of the molecule. This domain motion positions a conserved aspartate residue located in the C-terminal domain in the active site of 	2017	11	27	Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun	Acta crystallographica. Section F, Structural biology communications	Methylobacterium extorquens; biofuels; malyl-CoA lyase; metabolic engineering; methanol; Acyl Coenzyme A; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Catalytic Domain; Cations, Divalent; Cloning, Molecular; Coenzyme A; Crystallography, X-Ray; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Magnesium; Methylobacterium extorquens; Models, Molecular; Oxalic Acid; Oxo-Acid-Lyases; Plasmids; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical; Protein Conformation, beta-Strand; Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Gonz..lez	Javier M
28130884	10.1002/1873-3468.12575	The PufX quinone channel enables the light-harvesting 1 antenna to bind more carotenoids for light collection and photoprotection.	Photosynthesis in some phototrophic bacteria requires the PufX component of the reaction centre-light-harvesting 1-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) complex, which creates a pore for quinone/quinol (Q/QH2 ) exchange across the LH1 barrier surrounding the RC. However, photosynthetic bacteria such as Thermochromatium (T.) tepidum do not require PufX because there are fewer carotenoid binding sites, which creates multiple pores in the LH1 ring for Q/QH2 exchange. We show that an ..Trp-24 ...Phe alteration of the Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides LH1 antenna impairs carotenoid binding and allows photosynthetic growth in the absence of PufX. We propose that acquisition of PufX and confining Q/QH2 traffic to a pore adjacent to the RC QB site is an evolutionary upgrade that allows increased LH1 carotenoid content for enhanced light absorption and photoprotection.	2017	6	1	FEBS Lett	FEBS letters	bacterial photosynthesis; carotenoid; light-harvesting; membrane protein; quinones, reaction centre; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Benzoquinones; Carotenoids; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Olsen	John D
28118511	10.1111/mmi.13627	Lysine acetylation regulates the function of the global anaerobic transcription factor FnrL in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The metabolism of the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is versatile and it can grow under various conditions. Here, we report evidence that the anaerobic photosynthetic metabolism of R. sphaeroides is regulated by protein lysine acetylation. Using a proteomic approach, 59 acetylated peptides were detected. Among them is the global anaerobic transcription factor FnrL, which regulates the biosynthetic pathway of tetrapyrroles and synthesis of the photosynthetic apparatus. Lysine 223 of FnrL was identified as acetylated. We show that all three lysines in the DNA binding domain (K223, K213 and K175) of FnrL can be acetylated by acetyl-phosphate in vitro. A bacterial deacetylase homolog, RsCobB can deacetylate FnrL in vitro. The transcription of genes downstream of FnrL decreased when the DNA binding domain of FnrL was acetylated, as revealed by chromatin immunoprecipitation and acetylation-mimicking mutagenesis. An increasing number of acetylated lysines resulted in a fu	2017	9	21	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Acetylation; Aerobiosis; Anaerobiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatin Immunoprecipitation; DNA, Bacterial; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Lysine; Photosynthesis; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tetrapyrroles; Trans-Activators; Transcription Factors	Wei	Wei
28054547	10.1038/ncomms13972	Augmenting light coverage for photosynthesis through YFP-enhanced charge separation at the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centre.	Photosynthesis uses a limited range of the solar spectrum, so enhancing spectral coverage could improve the efficiency of light capture. Here, we show that a hybrid reaction centre (RC)/yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) complex accelerates photosynthetic growth in the bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The structure of the RC/YFP-light-harvesting 1 (LH1) complex shows the position of YFP attachment to the RC-H subunit, on the cytoplasmic side of the RC complex. Fluorescence lifetime microscopy of whole cells and ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy of purified RC/YFP complexes show that the YFP-RC intermolecular distance and spectral overlap between the emission of YFP and the visible-region (QX) absorption bands of the RC allow energy transfer via a F..rster mechanism, with an efficiency of 40..10%. This proof-of-principle study demonstrates the feasibility of increasing spectral coverage for harvesting light using non-native genetically-encoded light-absorbers, there	2018	12	11	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bacterial Proteins; Blotting, Western; Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer; Light; Luminescent Proteins; Microscopy, Electron; Microscopy, Fluorescence; Models, Biological; Photosynthesis; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Pilot Projects; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Grayson	Katie J
27992646	10.1111/php.12698	Divalent Cations Increase DNA Repair Activities of Bacterial (6-4) Photolyases.	The (6-4) photolyases of the FeS-BCP group can be considered as the most ancient type among the large family of cryptochrome and photolyase flavoproteins. In contrast to other photolyases, they contain an Fe-S cluster of unknown function, a DMRL chromophore, an interdomain loop, which could interact with DNA, and a long C-terminal extension. We compared DNA repair and photoreduction of two members of the FeS-BCP family, Agrobacterium fabrum PhrB and Rhodobacter sphaeroides RsCryB, with a eukaryotic (6-4) photolyase from Ostreococcus, OsCPF, and a member of the class III CPD photolyases, PhrA from A...fabrum. We found that the low DNA repair effectivity of FeS-BCP proteins is largely stimulated by Mg<sup>2+</sup> and other divalent cations, whereas no effect of divalent cations was observed in OsCPF and PhrA. The (6-4) repair activity in the presence of Mg<sup>2+</sup> is comparable with the repair activities of the other two photolyases. The photoreduction, on the other hand, is negati	2018	9	27	Photochem Photobiol	Photochemistry and photobiology	Agrobacterium; Catalytic Domain; Cations, Divalent; Chlorophyta; DNA Repair; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Plant; Deoxyribodipyrimidine Photo-Lyase; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Light; Magnesium; Mutagenesis; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ma	Hongju
27992230	10.1021/acs.jpcb.6b11116	pH and Potential Transients of the bc<sub>1</sub> Complex Co-Reconstituted in Proteo-Lipobeads with the Reaction Center from Rb. sphaeroides.	His-tag technology is employed to bind membrane proteins, such as the bc1 complex and the reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, to spherical as well as planar surfaces in a strict orientation. Subsequently, the spherical and planar surfaces are subjected to in situ dialysis to form proteo-lipobeads (PLBs) and protein-tethered bilayer membranes, respectively. PLBs based on Ni-nitrileotriacetic acid-functionalized agarose beads that have diameters ranging from 50 to 150 ..m are used to assess proton release and membrane potential parameters by confocal laser-scanning microscopy. The pH and potential transients are thus obtained from bc1 activated by the RC. To assess the turnover of bc1 excited by the RC in a similar setting, we used the planar surface of an attenuated total reflection crystal modified with a thin gold layer to carry out time-resolved surface-enhanced IR absorption spectroscopy triggered by flash lamp excitation. The experime	2018	4	20	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lipid Bilayers; Liposomes; Particle Size; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Surface Properties	Geiss	Andreas F
27956523	10.1128/JB.00670-16	The Master Regulators of the Fla1 and Fla2 Flagella of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Control the Expression of Their Cognate CheY Proteins.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an alphaproteobacterium that has two complete sets of flagellar genes. The fla1 set was acquired by horizontal transfer from an ancestral gammaproteobacterium and is the only set of flagellar genes that is expressed during growth under standard laboratory conditions. The products of these genes assemble a single, subpolar flagellum. In the absence of the Fla1 flagellum, a gain-of-function mutation in the histidine kinase CckA turns on the expression of the fla2 flagellar genes through the response regulator CtrA. The rotation of the Fla1 and Fla2 flagella is controlled by different sets of chemotaxis proteins. Here, we show that the expression of the chemotaxis proteins that control Fla2, along with the expression of the fla2 genes, is coordinated by CtrA, whereas the expression of the chemotaxis genes that control Fla1 is mediated by the master regulators of the Fla1 system. The coordinated expression of the chemosensory proteins 	2017	6	14	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	CtrA; FleQ; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; RpoN; bacterial flagellum; chemotaxis; horizontal transfer; sigma-54; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Hernandez-Valle	Jos..
30665160	10.1016/j.watres.2018.12.025	Volatile fatty acids impacting phototrophic growth kinetics of purple bacteria: Paving the way for protein production on fermented wastewater.	Nutrient losses in our food chain severely surpass our planetary boundaries. Resource recovery can contribute to mitigation, for instance through converting wastewater resources to microbial protein for animal feed. Wastewater typically holds a complex mixture of organics, posing a challenge to selectively produce heterotrophic biomass. Ensuring the product's quality could be achieved by anaerobic generation of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) followed by photoheterotrophic production of purple non-sulfur bacteria (PNSB) with infrared light. This study aimed to determine the most suitable PNSB culture for VFA conversion and map the effect of acetate, propionate, butyrate and a VFA mixture on growth and biomass yield. Six cultures were screened in batch: (i) Rhodopseudomonas palustris, (ii) Rhodobacter sphaeroides, (iii) Rhodospirillum rubrum, (iv) a 3-species synthetic community (i+ii+iii), (v) a community enriched on VFA holding Rb. capsulatus, and (vi) Rb. capsulatus (isolate 'v'). The VF	2019	9	24	Water Res	Water research	Carbon capture; Carboxylate platform; Phototrophic purple bacteria; Short-chain fatty acids; Single-cell protein; Fatty Acids, Volatile; Kinetics; Phototrophic Processes; Proteobacteria; Waste Water	Alloul	Abbas
30533667	10.1128/MRA.01162-18	Complete Genome Sequences of Two <i>Rhodobacter</i> Strains.	We report the complete genome sequences of two strains of the Alphaproteobacteria genus Rhodobacter, Rhodobacter blasticus 28/5, the source of the commercially available enzyme RsaI, and a new isolate of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1. Both strains contain multiple restriction-modification systems, and their DNA methylation motifs are included in this report.	2020	10	1	Microbiol Resour Announc	Microbiology resource announcements	NA	Anton	Brian P
30529893	10.1016/j.jmr.2018.11.013	Assignment of NMR resonances of protons covalently bound to photochemically active cofactors in photosynthetic reaction centers by <sup>13</sup>C-<sup>1</sup>H photo-CIDNP MAS-J-HMQC experiment.	Modified versions of through-bond heteronuclear correlation (HETCOR) experiments are presented to take advantage of the light-induced hyperpolarization that occurs on <sup>13</sup>C nuclei due to the solid-state photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) effect. Such <sup>13</sup>C-<sup>1</sup>H photo-CIDNP MAS-J-HMQC and photo-CIDNP MAS-J-HSQC experiments are applied to acquire the 2D <sup>13</sup>C-<sup>1</sup>H correlation spectra of selectively <sup>13</sup>C-labeled photochemically active cofactors in the frozen quinone-blocked photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides wild-type (WT). Resulting spectra contain no correlation peaks arising from the protein backbone, which greatly simplifies the assignment of aliphatic region. Based on the photo-CIDNP MAS-J-HMQC NMR experiment, we obtained assignment of selective <sup>1</sup>H NMR resonances of the cofactors involved in the electron transfer process in the RC and	2020	7	16	J Magn Reson	Journal of magnetic resonance (San Diego, Calif. : 1997)	Bacterial reaction center; HETCOR; MAS-J-HMQC; MAS-J-HSQC; Solid-state photo-CIDNP; Carbon Isotopes; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Molecular Conformation; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vitamin B 12	Bielytskyi	Pavlo
30525460	10.1021/acssynbio.8b00432	Tn-Core: A Toolbox for Integrating Tn-seq Gene Essentiality Data and Constraint-Based Metabolic Modeling.	The design of synthetic cells requires a detailed understanding of the relevance of genes and gene networks underlying complex cellular phenotypes. Transposon-sequencing (Tn-seq) and constraint-based metabolic modeling can be used to probe the core genetic and metabolic networks underlying a biological process. Integrating these highly complementary experimental and in silico approaches has the potential to yield a highly comprehensive understanding of the core networks of a cell. Specifically, it can facilitate the interpretation of Tn-seq data sets and identify gaps in the data that could hinder the engineering of the cellular system, while also providing refined models for the accurate predictions of cellular metabolism. Here, we present Tn-Core, the first easy-to-use computational pipeline specifically designed for integrating Tn-seq data with metabolic modeling, prepared for use by both experimental and computational biologists. Tn-Core is a MATLAB toolbox that contains several cu	2020	1	27	ACS Synth Biol	ACS synthetic biology	COBRA models; bacterial metabolism; metabolic network reconstruction; systems biology; transposon sequencing; Computational Biology; DNA Transposable Elements; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Software; Systems Biology	diCenzo	George C
30456366	10.26508/lsa.201800080	RNase E cleavage shapes the transcriptome of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> and strongly impacts phototrophic growth.	Bacteria adapt to changing environmental conditions by rapid changes in their transcriptome. This is achieved not only by adjusting rates of transcription but also by processing and degradation of RNAs. We applied TIER-Seq (transiently inactivating an endoribonuclease followed by RNA-Seq) for the transcriptome-wide identification of RNase E cleavage sites and of 5' RNA ends, which are enriched when RNase E activity is reduced in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These results reveal the importance of RNase E for the maturation and turnover of mRNAs, rRNAs, and sRNAs in this guanine-cytosine-rich ..-proteobacterium, some of the latter have well-described functions in the oxidative stress response. In agreement with this, a role of RNase E in the oxidative stress response is demonstrated. A remarkably strong phenotype of a mutant with reduced RNase E activity was observed regarding the formation of photosynthetic complexes and phototrophic growth, whereas there was no effect on chemotrophi	2019	11	20	Life Sci Alliance	Life science alliance	NA	F..rstner	Konrad U
30451391	10.1111/1758-2229.12718	A response regulator of the OmpR family is part of the regulatory network controlling the oxidative stress response of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	As a free-living bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides needs to respond to many environmental stresses. Oxidative stress, membrane stress or heat stress induce the ompR-1 gene encoding a protein of the OmpR family. Overexpression of OmpR-1 results in increased resistance to organic peroxides and diamide. Our data demonstrate that OmpR-1 positively affects expression of several sRNAs with an established role in R. sphaeroides stress defences and negatively affects the promoter of the rpoHI gene. The RpoHI sigma factor has a main role in the activation of many stress responses. Thus OmpR-1 has a balancing effect on the activation of the RpoHI regulon. We present a model with OmpR-1 as part of a regulatory network controlling stress defences in R. sphaeroides.	2019	9	23	Environ Microbiol Rep	Environmental microbiology reports	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Oxidative Stress; Peroxides; Promoter Regions, Genetic; RNA, Small Untranslated; Regulon; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Trans-Activators	Zhao	Zhiping
30421110	10.1007/s00253-018-9497-0	In vitro antioxidant activities of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and protective effect on Caco-2 cell line model.	The present study aimed to evaluate the in vitro antioxidant activities and the protective effect of Rhodobacter sphaeroides on H2O2-induced oxidative stress in Caco-2 cells. The results showed that the antioxidant action of R. sphaeroides varied with different cell concentrations and treatments. Also, the intact cells and intracellular cell-free extracts showed better antioxidant activities. Caco-2 cell-based oxidative stress model was developed by optimizing H2O2 concentration and culture time with the half lethal dose and methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium. By increasing the activity of endogenous antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, upregulating the antioxidant ability of the anti-superoxide anion and anti-hydroxyl radical, R. sphaeroides, especially the mutant strain R. sphaeroides (CGMCC No. 8513), exhibited significant protective activity against H2O2-induced oxidative stress i	2019	5	13	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Antioxidant activities; Caco-2 cell; Oxidative stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Antioxidants; Caco-2 Cells; Cell Survival; Epithelial Cells; Humans; Hydrogen Peroxide; Oxidants; Oxidative Stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	An	Jun
30414933	10.1016/j.bbabio.2018.11.008	Engineering of B800 bacteriochlorophyll binding site specificity in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides LH2 antenna.	The light-harvesting 2 complex (LH2) of the purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a highly efficient, light-harvesting antenna that allows growth under a wide-range of light intensities. In order to expand the spectral range of this antenna complex, we first used a series of competition assays to measure the capacity of the non-native pigments 3-acetyl chlorophyll (Chl) a, Chl...d, Chl...f or bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) b to replace native BChl...a in the B800 binding site of LH2. We then adjusted the B800 site and systematically assessed the binding of non-native pigments. We find that Arg-10 of the LH2 .. polypeptide plays a crucial role in binding specificity, by providing a hydrogen-bond to the 3-acetyl group of native and non-native pigments. Reconstituted LH2 complexes harbouring the series of (B)Chls were examined by transient absorption and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopies. Although slowed 10-fold to ~6...ps, energy transfer from Chl...a to 	2019	8	9	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Bacteriochlorophyll; Chlorophyll; LH2; Ligand binding; Light harvesting; Protein engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Binding; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Swainsbury	David J K
30389844	10.1042/BCJ20180706	<i>Rhodobacter</i> <i>sphaeroides</i> methionine sulfoxide reductase P reduces <i>R</i>- and <i>S</i>-diastereomers of methionine sulfoxide from a broad-spectrum of protein substrates.	Methionine (Met) is prone to oxidation and can be converted to Met sulfoxide (MetO), which exists as R- and S-diastereomers. MetO can be reduced back to Met by the ubiquitous methionine sulfoxide reductase (Msr) enzymes. Canonical MsrA and MsrB were shown to be absolutely stereospecific for the reduction of S-diastereomer and R-diastereomer, respectively. Recently, a new enzymatic system, MsrQ/MsrP which is conserved in all gram-negative bacteria, was identified as a key actor for the reduction of oxidized periplasmic proteins. The haem-binding membrane protein MsrQ transmits reducing power from the electron transport chains to the molybdoenzyme MsrP, which acts as a protein-MetO reductase. The MsrQ/MsrP function was well established genetically, but the identity and biochemical properties of MsrP substrates remain unknown. In this work, using the purified MsrP enzyme from the photosynthetic bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a model, we show that it	2019	6	3	Biochem J	The Biochemical journal	enzyme kinetics; methionine sulfoxide reductase; molybdoenzyme; oxidative stress; protein oxidation; proteomics; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Isoenzymes; Methionine; Methionine Sulfoxide Reductases; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasmic Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stereoisomerism; Substrate Specificity	Tarrago	Lionel
30359676	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2018.10.007	Whole-genome sequence of purple non-sulfur bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain MBTLJ-8 with improved CO<sub>2</sub> reduction capacity.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides consists of two chromosomes and many plasmids and incorporates many environmentally important functional gene. Rhodobacter sphaeroides MBTLJ-8 was derived from R. sphaeroides 2.4.1 using chemical mutagenesis and is characterized by enhanced production of physiological active compounds as well as improved carbon dioxide reduction capacity. We reported the complete genome sequence and characteristics based on genomic information of this bacteria. Therefore, this genome sequence provides elucidation for improved CO2 fixation and enhanced physiological active compounds production, and will be used as the efficient photosynthetic bacteria for the biological CO2 reduction system.	2019	1	14	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Carbon dioxides fixation; Pacific biosciences; Photosynthetic bacteria; Physiologically active effect; Rhodobacter sphaeroides MBTLJ-8; Whole-genome sequence; Carbon Dioxide; Genome, Bacterial; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Park	Ju-Yong
30353420	10.1007/s11120-018-0595-8	Comparison of tryptophan fluorescence lifetimes in cyanobacterial photosystem I frozen in the light and in the dark.	The dependence on temperature of tryptophan fluorescence lifetime in trimeric photosystem I (PSI) complexes from cyanobacteria Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 during the heating of pre-frozen to -...180....C in the dark or in the light-activated preparations has been studied. Fluorescence lifetime in samples frozen in the light was longer than in samples frozen in the dark. For samples in 65% glycerol at ..reg...=...335..nm and at 20....C, the lifetime of components were as follows: ..1.........1.2..ns, ..2.........4.9..ns, and ..3.........20..ns. The contribution of the first component was negligible. To analyze the contribution of components 2 and 3 derived from frozen-thawed samples, two temperature ranges from -...180 to -...90....C and above -...90....C are considered. In doing so, the contributions of these components appear antiphase course to each other. The dependence on temperature of these contributions is explained by the influence of 	2019	3	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Fluorescence decay kinetics; Photosynthetic reaction center; Photosystem I; Recombination kinetics; Temperature dependence; Tryptophan fluorescence; Cyanobacteria; Fluorescence; Light; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Temperature; Tryptophan	Knox	Peter P
30351114	10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b07985	Influence of the Electrochemical Properties of the Bacteriochlorophyll Dimer on Triplet Energy-Transfer Dynamics in Bacterial Reaction Centers.	Energetics, protein dynamics, and electronic coupling are the key factors in controlling both electron and energy transfer in photosynthetic bacterial reaction centers (RCs). Here, we examine the rates and mechanistic pathways of the P<sup>+</sup>HA<sup>-</sup> radical-pair charge recombination, triplet state formation, and subsequent triplet energy transfer from the triplet state of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer (P) to the carotenoid in a series of mutant RCs (L131LH + M160LH (D1), L131LH + M197FH (D2), and L131LH + M160LH + M197FH (T1)) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. In these mutants, the electronic structure of P is perturbed and the P/P<sup>+</sup> midpoint potential is systematically increased due to addition of hydrogen bonds between P and the introduced residues. High-resolution, broad-band, transient absorption spectroscopy on the femtosecond to microsecond timescale shows that the charge recombination rate increases and the triplet energy transfer rate decreases in the	2019	10	11	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Mandal	Sarthak
30347352	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2018.10.005	Relaxation processes accompanying electron stabilization in the quinone acceptor part of Rb. sphaeroides reaction centers.	The temperature dependence of the dark recombination rate in photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll (P) and photoreduced quinone acceptors (ubiquinones) QA and QB of photosynthetic reaction centers of purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rb. sphaeroides) was studied. Photoinduced changes in the absorption were detected in the Qx absorption band of photooxidized bacteriochlorophyll at 600...nm and in the bands corresponding to the redox changes of ubiquinones at 335 and 420-450...nm. Kinetic analysis was used to evaluate the activation energy and the characteristic time of the transient process of relaxation accompanying electron stabilization at the final quinone acceptor. A comparative study of the kinetics of oxidation-reduction reactions of photoactive bacteriochlorophyll RC purple bacteria and quinone acceptors in their individual absorption bands is an informative approach to studying the mechanisms of this stabilization. The analysis of the reveale	2019	2	4	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Electron transfer; Hydrogen bonds; Photosynthetic reaction center; Relaxation processes; Electrons; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics	Knox	P P
30305031	10.1186/s12866-018-1264-y	Architecture of divergent flagellar promoters controlled by CtrA in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has two sets of flagellar genes, fla1 and fla2, that are responsible for the synthesis of two different flagellar structures. The expression of the fla2 genes is under control of CtrA. In several ..-proteobacteria CtrA is also required for the expression of the flagellar genes, but the architecture of CtrA-dependent promoters has only been studied in detail in Caulobacter crescentus. In many cases the expression of fla genes originates from divergent promoters located a few base pairs apart, suggesting a particular arrangement of the cis-acting sites. Here we characterized several control regions of the R. sphaeroides fla2 genes and analyzed in detail two regions containing the divergent promoters flgB2p-fliI2p, and fliL2p-fliF2p. Binding sites for CtrA of these promoters were identified in silico and tested by site directed mutagenesis. We conclude that each one of these promoter regions has a particular arrangement, either a single CtrA binding site for activa	2019	7	5	BMC Microbiol	BMC microbiology	Bacterial flagellum; CtrA; Divergent promoters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chemotaxis; DNA, Intergenic; DNA-Binding Proteins; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptional Activation	Rivera-Osorio	Anet
30302671	10.1140/epje/i2018-11728-2	The swimming of a deforming helix.	Many microorganisms and artificial microswimmers use helical appendages in order to generate locomotion. Though often rotated so as to produce thrust, some species of bacteria such Spiroplasma, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Spirochetes induce movement by deforming a helical-shaped body. Recently, artificial devices have been created which also generate motion by deforming their helical body in a non-reciprocal way (A. Mourran et al. Adv. Mater. 29, 1604825, 2017). Inspired by these systems, we investigate the transport of a deforming helix within a viscous fluid. Specifically, we consider a swimmer that maintains a helical centreline and a single handedness while changing its helix radius, pitch and wavelength uniformly across the body. We first discuss how a deforming helix can create a non-reciprocal translational and rotational swimming stroke and identify its principle direction of motion. We then determine the leading-order physics for helices with small helix radius before consider	2019	1	7	Eur Phys J E Soft Matter	The European physical journal. E, Soft matter	Topical issue: Flowing Matter, Problems and Applications; Bacteria; Biomechanical Phenomena; Models, Biological; Movement; Surface Properties; Swimming; Torque	Koens	Lyndon
30246324	10.1111/1462-2920.14423	Isotope discrimination by form IC RubisCO from Ralstonia eutropha and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, metabolically versatile members of 'Proteobacteria' from aquatic and soil habitats.	RubisCO, the CO2 fixing enzyme of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle, is responsible for the majority of carbon fixation on Earth. RubisCO fixes <sup>12</sup> CO2 faster than <sup>13</sup> CO2 resulting in <sup>13</sup> C-depleted biomass, enabling the use of ..<sup>13</sup> C values to trace CBB activity in contemporary and ancient environments. Enzymatic fractionation is expressed as an .. value, and is routinely used in modelling, for example, the global carbon cycle and climate change, and for interpreting trophic interactions. Although values for spinach RubisCO (.. = ~29...) have routinely been used in such efforts, there are five different forms of RubisCO utilized by diverse photolithoautotrophs and chemolithoautotrophs and .. values, now known for four forms (IA, B, D and II), vary substantially with .. = 11... to 27.... Given the importance of .. values in ..<sup>13</sup> C evaluation, we measured enzymatic fractionation of the fifth form, 	2020	2	10	Environ Microbiol	Environmental microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Cycle; Carbon Isotopes; Cupriavidus necator; Ecosystem; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Soil Microbiology; Water Microbiology	Thomas	Phaedra J
30232811	10.1111/mmi.14133	Resolving the roles of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides HemA and HemT 5-aminolevulinic acid synthases.	Strains of the phototrophic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides vary in the number of enzymes catalyzing the formation of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA synthases) that are encoded in their genomes. All have hemA, but not all have hemT. This study compared transcription of these genes, and also properties of their products among three wild-type strains; 2.4.3 has hemA alone, 2.4.1 and 2.4.9 have both hemA and hemT. Using lacZ reporter plasmids all hemA genes were found to be upregulated under anaerobic conditions, but induction amplitudes differ. hemT is transcriptionally silent in 2.4.1 but actively transcribed in 2.4.9, and strongly upregulated under anaerobic-dark growth conditions when cells are respiring dimethyl sulfoxide, vs. aerobic-dark or phototrophic (anaerobic-light) conditions. Two extracytoplasmic function (ECF)-type sigma factors present in 2.4.9, but absent from 2.4.1 are directly involved in hemT transcription. Kinetic properties of the ALA synthases of all three	2019	7	17	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Stoian	Natalie
30189387	10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.06.010	Interaction between the photosynthetic anoxygenic microorganism Rhodobacter sphaeroides and soluble gold compounds. From toxicity to gold nanoparticle synthesis.	Biological processes using microorganisms for nanoparticle synthesis are appealing as eco-friendly nanofactories. The response of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to gold exposure and its reducing capability of Au(III) to produce stable gold nanoparticles (AuNPs), using metabolically active bacteria and quiescent biomass, is reported in this study. In the former case, bacterial cells were grown in presence of gold chloride at physiological pH. Gold exposure was found to cause a significant increase of the lag-phase duration at concentrations higher than 10 ..M, suggesting the involvement of a resistance mechanism activated by Au(III). Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) and Scanning Electron Microscopy/Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectrometry (SEM/EDS) analysis of bacterial cells confirmed the extracellular formation of AuNPs. Further studies were carried out on metabolically quiescent biomass incubated with gold chloride solution. The biosynthesized AuNPs were spher	2019	3	25	Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces	Colloids and surfaces. B, Biointerfaces	Extracellular biosynthesis; Gold nanoparticles; Green synthesis; Nitrophenol degradation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Anaerobiosis; Biomass; Catalysis; Gold; Metal Nanoparticles; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Italiano	Francesca
30167725	10.1007/s00203-018-1561-8	Rhodobacter alkalitolerans sp. nov., isolated from an alkaline brown pond.	An alkali-tolerant, Gram-stain-negative, motile, rod-to-oval-shaped, yellowish brown-colored, phototrophic bacterium, designated as strain JA916<sup>T</sup>, was isolated from an alkaline brown pond in Gujarat, India. The DNA G...+...C content of the strain JA916<sup>T</sup> was 65.1..mol%. Strain JA916<sup>T</sup> grew well at pH 10. Respiratory quinone was Q-10 and major fatty acid was C18:1..7c/C18:1..6c, with significant quantities of C15:02OH observed. Strain JA916<sup>T</sup> shared the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with the type strains of Rhodobacter johrii (98.4%), followed by Rhodobacter megalophilus (98.3%), Rhodobacter sphaeroides (98.3%), Rhodobacter azotoformans (97.9%) and other members of the genus Rhodobacter (&lt;...97%). 16S rRNA gene-based phylogenetic tree shows that strain JA916<sup>T</sup> formed a distinct sub-clade with Rhodobacter johrii, Rhodobacter megalophilus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodobacter azotoformans	2018	11	20	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	Alkaline brown pond; Rhodobacter alkalitolerans sp. nov.; rpoB gene; Base Composition; DNA, Bacterial; Fatty Acids; Phylogeny; Ponds; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter	Gandham	Suresh
30126840	10.1074/jbc.RA118.004672	A paralog of a bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis enzyme catalyzes the formation of 1,2-dihydrocarotenoids in green sulfur bacteria.	Chlorobaculum tepidum, a green sulfur bacterium, utilizes chlorobactene as its major carotenoid, and this organism also accumulates a reduced form of this monocyclic pigment, 1',2'-dihydrochlorobactene. The protein catalyzing this reduction is the last unidentified enzyme in the biosynthetic pathways for all of the green sulfur bacterial pigments used for photosynthesis. The genome of C. tepidum contains two paralogous genes encoding members of the FixC family of flavoproteins: bchP, which has been shown to encode an enzyme of bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis; and bchO, for which a function has not been assigned. Here we demonstrate that a bchO mutant is unable to synthesize 1',2'-dihydrochlorobactene, and when bchO is heterologously expressed in a neurosporene-producing mutant of the purple bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the encoded protein is able to catalyze the formation of 1,2-dihydroneurosporene, the major carotenoid of the on	2019	3	4	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	Blastochloris viridis; Chlorobaculum tepidum; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacterial genetics; carotenoid; energy metabolism; green sulfur bacterium; photosynthesis; photosynthetic pigment; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Biosynthetic Pathways; Carotenoids; Chlorobi; Chlorobium; Genome, Bacterial; Oxidoreductases; Photosynthesis	Canniffe	Daniel P
30098062	10.1111/mmi.14100	Rhodobacterales use a unique L-threonine kinase for the assembly of the nucleotide loop of coenzyme B<sub>12</sub>.	Several of the enzymes involved in the conversion of adenosylcobyric acid (AdoCby) to adenosylcobamide (AdoCba) are yet to be identified and characterized in some cobamide (Cba)-producing prokaryotes. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the bluE gene (locus tag RSP_0788) of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 as a putative functional homolog of the L-threonine kinase enzyme (PduX, EC 2.7.1.177) of S. enterica. In AdoCba, (R)-1-aminopropan-2-ol O-phosphate (AP-P) links the nucleotide loop to the corrin ring; most known AdoCba producers derive AP-P from L-Thr-O-3-phosphate (L-Thr-P). Here, we show that RsBluE has L-Thr-independent ATPase activity in vivo and in vitro. We used <sup>31</sup> P-NMR spectroscopy to show that RsBluE generates L-Thr-P at the expense of ATP and is unable to use L-Ser as a substrate. BluE from R. sphaeroides or Rhodobacter capsulatus restored AdoCba biosynthesis in S. enterica ..pduX and R. sphaeroides ..bluE mutant strains. R. sphaeroides ..bluE strains ex	2019	7	9	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Cobalt; Cobamides; Nucleotides; Phylogeny; Protein Serine-Threonine Kinases; Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Salmonella enterica; Serine; Threonine	Tavares	Norbert K
30080042	10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b06080	Cooperative Photoprotection by Multicompositional Carotenoids in the LH1 Antenna from a Mutant Strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	To explore the photoprotection role of multicompositional carotenoid (Car) in photosynthetic purple bacteria, we investigated, by means of triplet excitation profile (TEP) combined with steady-state optical spectroscopies, the core light-harvesting complex-reaction center of a mutant strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (m-LH1-RC) at room temperature. TEP spectra revealed that spheroidene and derivative (Spe) preferentially protect bacteriochlorophylls (BChls) of relatively lower site energy by quenching the triplet excitation (<sup>3</sup>BChl*); however, spirilloxanthin (Spx) does so irrespective to the site energy of BChls. Triplet excitation results showed the triplet excitation energy-transfer (EET) reaction in a timescale of ...0.5 ..s from Spe and derivatives as a major component (...85%) to Spx as a minor component (...8%), suggesting the coexistence of different kinds of Cars in the individual LH1 complex. The nonequivalent quenching potency and the triplet EET reaction between C	2019	10	9	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Xanthophylls	Yu	Jie
30061356	10.1128/JB.00397-18	Biochemical and Phylogenetic Study of SltF, a Flagellar Lytic Transglycosylase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In this work, we have characterized the soluble lytic transglycosylase (SltF) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides that interacts with the scaffolding protein FlgJ in the periplasm to open space at the cell wall peptidoglycan heteropolymer for the emerging rod. The characterization of the genetic context of flgJ and sltF in alphaproteobacteria shows that these two separate genes coexist frequently in a flagellar gene cluster. Two domains of unknown function in SltF were studied, and the results show that the deletion of a 17-amino-acid segment near the N terminus does not show a recognizable phenotype, whereas the deletion of 47 and 95 amino acids of the C terminus of SltF disrupts the interaction with FlgJ without affecting the transglycosylase catalytic activity of SltF. These mutant proteins are unable to support swimming, indicating that the physical interaction between SltF and FlgJ is central for flagellar formation. In a maximum likelihood tree of representative lyt	2019	9	19	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacterial flagellum; lytic transglycosylase; Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Glycosyltransferases; Likelihood Functions; Mutation; Peptidoglycan; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Type III Secretion Systems	Garc..a-Ramos	Mariela
30023847	10.1021/acsomega.7b01808	Initiation, Elongation, and Termination of Bacterial Cellulose Synthesis.	Cellulose is the major component of the plant cell wall and composed of ..-linked glucose units. Use of cellulose is greatly impacted by its physical properties, which are dominated by the number of individual cellulose strand within each fiber and the average length of each strand. Our work described herein provides a complete mechanism for cellulose synthase accounting for its processivity and mechanism of initiation. Using ionic liquids and gel permeation chromatography, we obtain kinetic constants for initiation, elongation, and termination (release of the cellulose strand from the enzyme) for two bacterial cellulose synthases (Gluconacetobacter hansenii and Rhodobacter sphaeroides). Our results show that initiation of synthesis is primer-independent. After initiation, the enzyme undergoes multiple cycles of elongation until the strand is released. The rate of elongation is much faster than that of steady-state turnover. Elongation requires cyclic addition of glucose 	2020	10	1	ACS Omega	ACS omega	NA	McManus	John B
30022339	10.1007/s11120-018-0560-6	Reorganization energies of the electron transfer reactions involving quinones in the reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In framework of the continuum electrostatics theory, the reorganization energies of the electron transfers QA<sup>-</sup>-QB (fast phase), Bph<sup>-</sup>-QA, P<sup>+</sup>-QA<sup>-</sup>, and P<sup>+</sup>-QB<sup>-</sup> in the photosynthetic bacterial reaction center have been calculated. The calculations were based on the static dielectric permittivity spatial distribution derived from the data on the electrogenesis, with the corresponding characteristic times relatively close to the reaction times of QA<sup>-</sup>-QB (fast phase) and Bph<sup>-</sup>-QA but much shorter than those times of the latter two recombination reactions. The calculated reorganization energies were reasonably close to the experimental estimates for QA<sup>-</sup>-QB (fast phase) and Bph<sup>-</sup>-QA but substantially lower than those of P<sup>+</sup>-QA<sup>-</sup> and P<sup>+	2018	12	11	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Dielectric inhomogeneity of protein; Electron transfer; Photosynthesis; Quinone; Reorganization energy; Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Structure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ptushenko	Vasily V
29996105	10.1016/j.celrep.2018.06.021	Accommodation of Helical Imperfections in Rhodobacter sphaeroides Argonaute Ternary Complexes with Guide RNA and Target DNA.	Prokaryotic Argonaute (Ago) proteins were recently shown to target foreign genetic elements, thus making them a perfect model for studies of interference mechanisms. Here, we study interactions of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Ago (RsAgo) with guide RNA (gRNA) and fully complementary or imperfect target DNA (tDNA) using biochemical and structural approaches. We show that RsAgo can specifically recognize both the first nucleotide in gRNA and complementary nucleotide in tDNA, and both interactions contribute to nucleic acid binding. Non-canonical pairs and bulges on the target strand can be accommodated by RsAgo with minimal perturbation of the duplex but significantly reduce RsAgo affinity to tDNA. Surprisingly, mismatches between gRNA and tDNA induce dissociation of the guide-target duplex from RsAgo. Our results reveal plasticity in the ability of Ago proteins to accommodate helical imperfections, show how this might affect the efficiency of RNA silencing, and suggest a potential mechanism 	2019	11	7	Cell Rep	Cell reports	RNA-DNA heteroduplex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides Argonaute; RsAgo; guide RNA; non-canonical base pairs and bulges; target DNA; Argonaute Proteins; Base Pairing; Base Sequence; Biocatalysis; DNA, Bacterial; Models, Molecular; Multiprotein Complexes; Protein Structure, Secondary; RNA, Guide; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Liu	Yiwei
29995992	10.1111/mmi.14077	Connectivity of centermost chromatophores in Rhodobacter sphaeroides bacteria.	The size of whole Rhodobacter sphaeroides prevents 3D visualization of centermost chromatophores in their native environment. This study combines cryo-focused ion beam milling with cryo-electron tomography to probe vesicle architecture both in situ and in 3D. Developing chromatophores are membrane-bound buds that remain in topological continuity with the cytoplasmic membrane and detach into vesicles when mature. Mature chromatophores closest to the cell wall are typically isolated vesicles, whereas centermost chromatophores are either linked to neighboring chromatophores or contain smaller, budding structures. Isolated chromatophores comprised a minority of centermost chromatophores. Connections between vesicles in growing bacteria are through ~10 nm-long, ~5 nm-wide linkers, and are thus physical rather than functional in terms of converting photons to ATP. In cells in the stationary phase, chromatophores fuse with neighboring vesicles, lose their spherical structure, and greatly incr	2019	3	21	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Chromatophores; Cell Membrane; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Electron Microscope Tomography; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Noble	Jade M
29995316	10.1111/mmi.14076	PcrX, an sRNA derived from the 3'- UTR of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides puf operon modulates expression of puf genes encoding proteins of the bacterial photosynthetic apparatus.	Facultative phototrophic bacteria like Rhodobacter sphaeroides can produce ATP by anoxygenic photosynthesis, which is of advantage under conditions with limiting oxygen. However, the simultaneous presence of pigments, light and oxygen leads to the generation of harmful singlet oxygen. In order to avoid this stress situation, the formation of photosynthetic complexes is tightly regulated by light and oxygen signals. In a complex regulatory network several regulatory proteins and the small non-coding RNA PcrZ contribute to the balanced expression of photosynthesis genes. With PcrX this study identifies a second sRNA that is part of this network. The puf operon encodes pigment binding proteins of the light-harvesting I complex (PufBA) and of the reaction center (PufLM), a protein regulating porphyrin flux (PufQ), and a scaffolding protein (PufX). The PcrX sRNA is derived from the 3' UTR of the puf operon mRNA by RNase E-mediated cleavage. It targets the pufX mRNA segment, reduces the half	2019	5	31	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	3' Untranslated Regions; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Operon; Photosynthesis; RNA, Small Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Eisenhardt	Katrin M H
29971571	10.1007/s11120-018-0550-8	Modelling of the cathodic and anodic photocurrents from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centres immobilized on titanium dioxide.	As one of a number of new technologies for the harnessing of solar energy, there is interest in the development of photoelectrochemical cells based on reaction centres (RCs) from photosynthetic organisms such as the bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides. The cell architecture explored in this report is similar to that of a dye-sensitized solar cell but with delivery of electrons to a mesoporous layer of TiO2 by natural pigment-protein complexes rather than an artificial dye. Rba. sphaeroides RCs were bound to the deposited TiO2 via an engineered extramembrane peptide tag. Using TMPD (N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine) as an electrolyte, these biohybrid photoactive electrodes produced an output that was the net product of cathodic and anodic photocurrents. To explain the observed photocurrents, a kinetic model is proposed that includes (1) an anodic current attributed to injection of electrons from the triplet state of the RC primary electron donor (P<sup	2018	11	15	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bioelectronics; Photosynthesis; Photovoltaics; Purple bacteria; Titanium dioxide; Aniline Compounds; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electrodes; Immobilized Proteins; Models, Theoretical; Pheophytins; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Titanium	Bia..ek	Rafa..
29965735	10.1021/acs.biochem.8b00644	Biochemical and Spectroscopic Characterizations of a Hybrid Light-Harvesting Reaction Center Core Complex.	The light-harvesting 1 reaction center (LH1-RC) complex from Thermochromatium tepidum exhibits a largely red-shifted LH1 Q y absorption at 915 nm due to binding of Ca<sup>2+</sup>, resulting in an "uphill" energy transfer from LH1 to the reaction center (RC). In a recent study, we developed a heterologous expression system (strain TS2) to construct a functional hybrid LH1-RC with LH1 from Tch. tepidum and the RC from Rhodobacter sphaeroides [Nagashima, K. V. P., et al. (2017) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 114, 10906]. Here, we present detailed characterizations of the hybrid LH1-RC from strain TS2. Effects of metal cations on the phototrophic growth of strain TS2 revealed that Ca<sup>2+</sup> is an indispensable element for its growth, which is also true for Tch. tepidum but not for Rba. sphaeroides. The thermal stability of the TS2 LH1-RC was strongly dependent on Ca<sup>2+</sup> in a manner similar to that of the native Tch. tepidum, but interactions between the heterolo	2019	6	24	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Calcium; Chromatiaceae; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Protein Aggregates; Protein Binding; Protein Stability; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kimura	Yukihiro
29948749	10.1007/s11120-018-0529-5	Hybrid complexes of photosynthetic reaction centers and quantum dots in various matrices: resistance to UV irradiation and heating.	The effects of ultraviolet (UV) irradiation (up to 0.6..J/cm<sup>2</sup>) and heating (65....C, 20..min) on the absorption spectra and electron transfer in dehydrated film samples of photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from purple bacterium Rhodobacter (Rb.) sphaeroides, as well as in hybrid structures consisting of RCs and quantum dots (QDs), have been studied. The samples were placed in organic matrices containing the stabilizers of protein structure-polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and trehalose. UV irradiation led to partially irreversible oxidation of some RCs, as well as to transformation of some fraction of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) molecules into bacteriopheophytin (BPheo) molecules. In addition, UV irradiation causes degradation of some BChl molecules that is accompanied by formation of 3-acetyl-chlorophyll a molecules. Finally, UV irradiation destroys the RCs carotenoid molecules. The incorporation of RCs into organic matrices reduced pheophytinization. Trehalose was especially	2019	3	4	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Heating; Hybrid complexes stability; Organic matrices; PVA; Photosynthetic reaction centers; Quantum dots; Trehalose; UV irradiation; Heating; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Dots; Rhodobacter; Trehalose; Ultraviolet Rays	Knox	Peter P
29909081	10.1016/j.jmr.2018.06.003	<sup>13</sup>C.........<sup>1</sup>H transfer of light-induced hyperpolarization allows for selective detection of protons in frozen photosynthetic reaction center.	In the present study, we exploit the light-induced hyperpolarization occurring on <sup>13</sup>C nuclei due to the solid-state photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) effect to boost the NMR signal intensity of selected protons via inverse cross-polarization. Such hyperpolarization transfer is implemented into <sup>1</sup>H-detected two-dimensional <sup>13</sup>C-<sup>1</sup>H correlation magic-angle-spinning (MAS) NMR experiment to study protons in frozen photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). As a first trial, the performance of such an experiment is tested on selectively <sup>13</sup>C labeled RCs from the purple bacteria of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We observed response from the protons belonging to the photochemically active cofactors in their native protein environment. Such an approach is a potential heteronuclear spin-torch experiment which could be complementary to the classical heteronuclear correlation (HETCOR) experiments for mapping proton chemica	2019	11	25	J Magn Reson	Journal of magnetic resonance (San Diego, Calif. : 1997)	HETCOR; Hyperpolarization transfer; Inverse cross polarization; MAS NMR; Photo-CIDNP; Spin-torch; Windowed detection; Carbon Isotopes; Electron Transport; Freezing; Light; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bielytskyi	Pavlo
29863354	10.1021/acs.jpclett.8b01197	New Insights into the Mechanism of Uphill Excitation Energy Transfer from Core Antenna to Reaction Center in Purple Photosynthetic Bacteria.	The uphill excitation energy transfer (EET) from the core antenna (LH1) to the reaction center (RC) of purple photosynthetic bacteria was investigated at room temperature by comparing the native LH1-RC from Thermochromatium ( Tch.) tepidum with the hybrid LH1-RC from a mutant strain of Rhodobacter ( Rba.) sphaeroides. The latter protein with chimeric Tch-LH1 and Rba-RC exhibits a substantially larger RC-to-LH1 energy difference (.. E = 630 cm<sup>-1</sup>) of 3-fold thermal energy (3 kB T). The spectroscopic and kinetics results are discussed on the basis of the newly reported high-resolution structures of Tch. tepidum LH1-RC, which allow us to propose the existence of a passage formed by LH1 BChls that facilitates the LH1 ... RC EET. The semilogarithmic plot of the EET rate against .. E was found to be linear over a broad range of .. E, which consolidates the mechanism of thermal activation as promoted by the spectral overlap between the LH1 fluorescence and the special pai	2018	6	29	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Chromatiaceae; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Mutagenesis; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Tan	Li-Ming
29806774	10.1021/acs.jafc.8b00855	Metabolic Redesign of Rhodobacter sphaeroides for Lycopene Production.	Lycopene plays an important role as an antioxidative and anticancer agent, and is an increasingly valuable commodity in the global market. Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a carotenogenic and phototrophic bacterium, is an efficient and practical host for carotenoid production. Herein, we explored the potential of metabolically engineered Rb. sphaeroides as a novel platform to produce lycopene. The basal lycopene-producing strain was generated by introducing an exogenous crtI4 from Rhodospirillum rubrum to replace the native crtI3 and deleting crtC in Rb. sphaeroides. Furthermore, knocking out zwf blocked the competitive pentose phosphate pathway and improved the lycopene content by 88%. Finally, the methylerythritol phosphate pathway was reinforced by integration of dxs combined with zwf deletion, which further increased the lycopene content. The final engineered strain produced lycopene to 10.32 mg/g dry cell weight. This study describes a new lycopene producer and provi	2018	7	5	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodospirillum rubrum; construction of metabolic pathway; crtI4 gene; lycopene synthesis; Antineoplastic Agents; Antioxidants; Carotenoids; Lycopene; Metabolic Engineering; Oxidoreductases; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Su	Anping
29802563	10.1007/s11120-018-0517-9	Remembering George Feher (1924-2017).	We provide a tribute to George Feher, one of the founding scientists in the use of biophysical techniques to probe photosynthetic complexes, especially the bacterial reaction center. His early life is briefly reviewed followed by a description of the impact of his 30 years of photosynthesis research. We describe his pioneering work in bacterial photosynthesis that helped to provide a detailed picture of the molecular events responsible for light energy capture and the subsequent electron and proton transfer events in photosynthetic organisms. These studies had a profound and lasting impact on our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of photosynthesis. We also include some personal comments from his former students and colleagues.	2018	11	5	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron paramagnetic resonance; Electron transfer; Electron-nuclear double resonance; Photosynthetic bacteria; Proton transfer; Reaction centers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; California; Czechoslovakia; Electron Transport; History, 20th Century; History, 21st Century; Israel; Photosynthesis; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Singlet Oxygen	Okamura	Melvin Y
29763307	10.1021/acssynbio.8b00100	Genetic Code Expansion in Rhodobacter sphaeroides to Incorporate Noncanonical Amino Acids into Photosynthetic Reaction Centers.	Photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) are the membrane proteins responsible for the initial charge separation steps central to photosynthesis. As a complex and spectroscopically complicated membrane protein, the RC (and other associated photosynthetic proteins) would benefit greatly from the insight offered by site-specifically encoded noncanonical amino acids in the form of probes and an increased chemical range in key amino acid analogues. Toward that goal, we developed a method to transfer amber codon suppression machinery developed for E...coli into the model bacterium needed to produce RCs, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Plasmids were developed and optimized to incorporate 3-chlorotyrosine, 3-bromotyrosine, and 3-iodotyrosine into RCs. Multiple challenges involving yield and orthogonality were overcome to implement amber suppression in R...sphaeroides, providing insights into the hurdles that can be involved in host transfer of amber suppression systems from E...coli. In the process of 	2019	6	17	ACS Synth Biol	ACS synthetic biology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; amber suppression; noncanonical amino acids; orthogonality; photosynthetic reaction centers; Amino Acids; Codon, Terminator; Microorganisms, Genetically-Modified; Monoiodotyrosine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plasmids; Protein Biosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Weaver	Jared Bryce
29732092	10.1039/c7sc04814a	Impact of the lipid bilayer on energy transfer kinetics in the photosynthetic protein LH2.	Photosynthetic purple bacteria convert solar energy to chemical energy with near unity quantum efficiency. The light-harvesting process begins with absorption of solar energy by an antenna protein called Light-Harvesting Complex 2 (LH2). Energy is subsequently transferred within LH2 and then through a network of additional light-harvesting proteins to a central location, termed the reaction center, where charge separation occurs. The energy transfer dynamics of LH2 are highly sensitive to intermolecular distances and relative organizations. As a result, minor structural perturbations can cause significant changes in these dynamics. Previous experiments have primarily been performed in two ways. One uses non-native samples where LH2 is solubilized in detergent, which can alter protein structure. The other uses complex membranes that contain multiple proteins within a large lipid area, which make it difficult to identify and distinguish perturbations caused by protein-protein interaction	2020	9	30	Chem Sci	Chemical science	NA	Ogren	John I
29656686	10.1080/13880209.2018.1457061	Lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (TLR4 antagonist) attenuates hypersensitivity and modulates nociceptive factors.	Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that Toll-like receptors (TLRs), especially TLR4 localized on microglia/macrophages, may play a significant role in nociception. We examine the role of TLR4 in a neuropathic pain model. Using behavioural/biochemical methods, we examined the influence of TLR4 antagonist on levels of hypersensitivity and nociceptive factors whose contribution to neuropathy development has been confirmed. Behavioural (von Frey's/cold plate) tests were performed with Wistar male rats after intrathecal administration of a TLR4 antagonist (LPS-RS ULTRAPURE (LPS-RSU), 20.....G: lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, InvivoGen, San Diego, CA) 16...H and 1...h before chronic constriction injury (cci) to the sciatic nerve and then daily for 7...d. three groups were used: an intact group and two cci-exposed groups that received vehicle or LPS-RSU. tissue [spinal cord/dorsal root ganglia (DRG)] for western blot analysis was collected on day 7. The pharmacological bl	2018	9	19	Pharm Biol	Pharmaceutical biology	Chronic constriction injury; LPS-RSU; cytokines; Analgesics; Animals; Behavior, Animal; Calcium-Binding Proteins; Disease Models, Animal; Ganglia, Spinal; Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein; Hyperalgesia; Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins; Interleukin 1 Receptor Antagonist Protein; Interleukins; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Matrix Metalloproteinase 9; Microfilament Proteins; Nociception; Nociceptive Pain; Rats, Wistar; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sciatica; Signal Transduction; Spinal Cord; Time Factors; Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Jurga	Agnieszka M
29642620	10.3390/ijms19041137	Rhodobacter sphaeroides Extract Lycogen... Attenuates Testosterone-Induced Benign Prostate Hyperplasia in Rats.	Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) is one of the most common urological problems in mid-aged to elderly men. Risk factors of BPH include family history, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and high oxidative stress. The main medication classes for BPH management are alpha blockers and 5..-reductase inhibitors. However, these conventional medicines cause adverse effects. Lycogen..., extracted from Rhodobacter sphaeroides WL-APD911, is an anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory compound. In this study, the effect of Lycogen... was evaluated in rats with testosterone-induced benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH). Testosterone injections and Lycogen... administration were carried out for 28 days, and body weights were recorded twice per week. The testosterone injection successfully induced a prostate enlargement. BPH-induced rats treated with different doses of Lycogen... exhibited a significantly decreased prostate index (PI). Moreover, the Lycogen... administration recovered the histological abnormal	2018	9	5	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Lycogen...; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; benign prostate hyperplasia; probiotics; Animals; Biological Products; Male; Prostatic Hyperplasia; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Testosterone	Wang	Chiang-Ting
29626419	10.1016/j.bbabio.2018.03.017	The K-path entrance in cytochrome c oxidase is defined by mutation of E101 and controlled by an adjacent ligand binding domain.	Three mutant forms of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase (RsCcO) were created to test for multiple K-path entry sites (E101W), the existence of an "upper ligand site" (M350...W), and the nature and binding specificity of the "lower ligand site" (P315W/E101A) in the region of a crystallographically-defined deoxycholate at the K-path entrance. The effects of inhibitory and stimulatory detergents (dodecyl maltoside and Tween20) on these mutants are presented, as well as competition with other ligands, including the potentially physiologically relevant ligands cholesterol and retinoic acid. Ligands are shown to be able to compete with natural lipids to affect the activity of membrane-bound RsCcO. Results point to a single K-path entrance site at E101, with a single ligand binding pocket proximal to the entrance. The affinity of this pocket for amphipathic ligands is enhanced by removal of the E101 carboxyl and blocked by substituting a tryptophan in this area. A new crystal struc	2018	11	8	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Cytochrome c oxidase; Detergents; K-path; Lipids; Retinoic acid; Steroids; Binding Sites; Detergents; Electron Transport Complex IV; Ligands; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Protein Binding; Protein Domains; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Hiser	Carrie
29625547	10.1134/S0006297918030082	Endonuclease Activity of MutL Protein of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Mismatch Repair System.	We have purified the MutL protein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides mismatch repair system (rsMutL) for the first time. rsMutL demonstrated endonuclease activity in vitro, as predicted by bioinformatics analysis. Based on the alignment of 1483 sequences of bacterial MutL homologs with presumed endonuclease activity, conserved functional motifs and amino acid residues in the rsMutL sequence were identified: five motifs comprising the catalytic site responsible for DNA cleavage were found in the C-terminal domain; seven conserved motifs involved in ATP binding and hydrolysis and specific to the GHKL family of ATPases were found in the N-terminal domain. rsMutL demonstrated the highest activity in the presence of Mn2+. The extent of plasmid DNA hydrolysis declined in the row Mn2+ &gt; Co2+ &gt; Mg2+ &gt; Cd2+; Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ca2+ did not activate rsMutL. Divalent zinc ions inhibited rsMutL endonuclease activity in the presence of Mn2+ excess. ATP also suppressed plasmid DNA hydrolysis by 	2018	6	8	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Computational Biology; DNA Mismatch Repair; DNA, Bacterial; Endonucleases; MutL Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Monakhova	M V
29625088	10.1016/j.bbabio.2018.03.016	Dissecting the pattern of proton release from partial process involved in ubihydroquinone oxidation in the Q-cycle.	A key feature of the modified Q-cycle of the cytochrome bc1 and related complexes is a bifurcation of QH2 oxidation involving electron transfer to two different acceptor chains, each coupled to proton release. We have studied the kinetics of proton release in chromatophore vesicles from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, using the pH-sensitive dye neutral red to follow pH changes inside on activation of the photosynthetic chain, focusing on the bifurcated reaction, in which 4H<sup>+</sup>are released on complete turnover of the Q-cycle (2H<sup>+</sup>/ubiquinol (QH2) oxidized). We identified different partial processes of the Qo-site reaction, isolated through use of specific inhibitors, and correlated proton release with electron transfer processes by spectrophotometric measurement of cytochromes or electrochromic response. In the presence of myxothiazol or azoxystrobin, the proton release observed reflected oxidation of the Rieske iron...sulfur prote	2018	7	24	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Antimycin; Azoxystrobin; Bifurcated reaction; H(+) exit pathways; Kinetic model; Myxothiazol; Partial processes; Q-cycle; Stigmatellin; bc(1) complex; Antimycin A; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Methacrylates; Oxidation-Reduction; Polyenes; Protons; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thiazoles	Wilson	Charles A
29605571	10.1016/j.jsb.2018.03.010	Structural and functional analysis of Erwinia amylovora SrlD. The first crystal structure of a sorbitol-6-phosphate 2-dehydrogenase.	Sorbitol-6-phosphate 2-dehydrogenases (S6PDH) catalyze the interconversion of d-sorbitol 6-phosphate to d-fructose 6-phosphate. In the plant pathogen Erwinia amylovora the S6PDH SrlD is used by the bacterium to utilize sorbitol, which is used for carbohydrate transport in the host plants belonging to the Amygdaloideae subfamily (e.g., apple, pear, and quince). We have determined the crystal structure of S6PDH SrlD at 1.84..... resolution, which is the first structure of an EC 1.1.1.140 enzyme. Kinetic data show that SrlD is much faster at oxidizing d-sorbitol 6-phosphate than in reducing d-fructose 6-phosphate, however, equilibrium analysis revealed that only part of the d-sorbitol 6-phosphate present in the in vitro environment is converted into d-fructose 6-phosphate. The comparison of the structures of SrlD and Rhodobacter sphaeroides sorbitol dehydrogenase showed that the tetrameric quaternary structure, the catalytic residues and a conserved aspartate residue that confers specific	2019	10	4	J Struct Biol	Journal of structural biology	Fire blight; Kinetics; Phytopathology; Rosaceae; X-Ray crystallography; d-Sorbitol 6-phosphate; Bacterial Proteins; Erwinia amylovora; Hexosephosphates; Kinetics; Rosaceae; Sugar Alcohol Dehydrogenases; Tomography, X-Ray Computed	Salomone-Stagni	Marco
29584941	10.1021/acs.jpclett.8b00108	Vibronic Coherence in the Charge Separation Process of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Center.	Two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy was applied to a variant of the reaction center (RC) of purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides lacking the primary acceptor ubiquinone in order to understand the ultrafast separation and transfer of charge between the bacteriochlorin cofactors. For the first time, characteristic 2D spectra were obtained for the participating excited and charge-transfer states, and the electron-transfer cascade (including two different channels, the P* and B* channels) was fully mapped. By analyzing quantum beats using 2D frequency maps, excited-state vibrational modes at 153 and 33 cm<sup>-1</sup> were identified. We speculate that these modes couple to the charge separation (CS) process and collectively optimize the CS and are responsible for the superhigh efficiency.	2018	4	30	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	NA	Ma	Fei
29555931	10.1038/s41419-018-0438-8	Alarmin HMGB1 induces systemic and brain inflammatory exacerbation in post-stroke infection rat model.	Post-stroke infection (PSI) is known to worsen functional outcomes of stroke patients and accounts to one-third of stroke-related deaths in hospital. In our previous reports, we demonstrated that massive release of high-mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1), an endogenous danger signal molecule, is promoted by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced acute damage in the postischemic brain, exacerbating neuronal damage by triggering delayed inflammatory processes. Moreover, augmentation of proinflammatory function of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) by HMGB1 via direct interaction has been reported. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of HMGB1 in aggravating inflammation in the PSI by exacerbating the function of LPS. PSI animal model was produced by administrating a low-dose LPS at 24...h post-middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Profound aggravations of inflammation, deterioration of behavioral outcomes, and infarct expansion were observed in LPS-injected MCAO animals, in which seru	2020	3	27	Cell Death Dis	Cell death &amp; disease	Animals; Bacterial Infections; Behavior, Animal; Brain; Cyclooxygenase 2; Disease Models, Animal; HMGB1 Protein; Infarction, Middle Cerebral Artery; Inflammation; Ketamine; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II; Peptides; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Kim	Il-Doo
29546752	10.1021/acs.biochem.7b01194	Cytochrome aa<sub>3</sub> Oxygen Reductase Utilizes the Tunnel Observed in the Crystal Structures To Deliver O<sub>2</sub> for Catalysis.	Cytochrome aa3 is the terminal respiratory enzyme of all eukaryotes and many bacteria and archaea, reducing O2 to water and harnessing the free energy from the reaction to generate the transmembrane electrochemical potential. The diffusion of O2 to the heme-copper catalytic site, which is buried deep inside the enzyme, is the initiation step of the reaction chemistry. Our previous molecular dynamics (MD) study with cytochrome ba3, a homologous enzyme of cytochrome aa3 in Thermus thermophilus, demonstrated that O2 diffuses from the lipid bilayer to its reduction site through a 25 .. long tunnel inferred by Xe binding sites detected by X-ray crystallography [Mahinthichaichan, P., Gennis, R., and Tajkhorshid, E. (2016) Biochemistry 55, 1265-1278]. Although a similar tunnel is observed in cytochrome aa3, this putative pathway appears partially occluded between the entrances and the reduction site. Also, the experi	2018	5	7	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Catalysis; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport Complex IV; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mahinthichaichan	Paween
29524035	10.1007/s11120-018-0493-0	In vivo assembly of a truncated H subunit mutant of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides photosynthetic reaction centre and direct electron transfer from the Q<sub>A</sub> quinone to an electrode.	We address a challenge in the engineering of proteins to redirect electron transfer pathways, using the bacterial photosynthetic reaction centre (RC) pigment-protein complex. Direct electron transfer is shown to occur from the QA quinone of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC containing a truncated H protein and bound on the quinone side to a gold electrode. In previous reports of binding to the quinone side of the RC, electron transfer has relied on the use of a soluble mediator between the RC and an electrode, in part because the probability of QB quinone reduction is much greater than that of direct electron transfer through the large cytoplasmic domain of the H subunit, presenting a...~...25.... barrier. A series of C-terminal truncations of the H subunit were created to expose the quinone region of the RC L and M proteins, and all truncated RC H mutants assembled in vivo. The 45M mutant was designed to contain only the N-terminal 45 amino acid residues of the H su	2018	10	18	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bio-photovoltaic; Electron transfer; Photocurrent; Reaction centre; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar cell; Truncated H protein; Coenzymes; DNA, Bacterial; Electrochemical Techniques; Electron Transport; Escherichia coli; Models, Molecular; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pigments, Biological; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jun	D
29496394	10.1016/j.bbabio.2018.02.006	Engineered biosynthesis of bacteriochlorophyll g<sub>F</sub> in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Engineering photosynthetic bacteria to utilize a heterologous reaction center that contains a different (bacterio) chlorophyll could improve solar energy conversion efficiency by allowing cells to absorb a broader range of the solar spectrum. One promising candidate is the homodimeric type I reaction center from Heliobacterium modesticaldum. It is the simplest known reaction center and uses bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) g, which absorbs in the near-infrared region of the spectrum. Like the more common BChls a and b, BChl g is a true bacteriochlorin. It carries characteristic C3-vinyl and C8-ethylidene groups, the latter shared with BChl b. The purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides was chosen as the platform into which the engineered production of BChl gF, where F is farnesyl, was attempted. Using a strain of Rba. sphaeroides that produces BChl bP, where P is phytyl, rather than the native BChl aP, we deleted bchF, a gene that encodes	2018	7	24	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Bacteriochlorophyll g; Biosynthetic pathway; Heliobacteria; Photosynthesis; Purple bacteria; Bacteriochlorophylls; Biosynthetic Pathways; Photosynthesis; Polyisoprenyl Phosphates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ortega-Ramos	Marcia
29487231	10.1128/mBio.00065-18	Widespread Distribution and Functional Specificity of the Copper Importer CcoA: Distinct Cu Uptake Routes for Bacterial Cytochrome <i>c</i> Oxidases.	Cytochrome c oxidases are members of the heme-copper oxidase superfamily. These enzymes have different subunits, cofactors, and primary electron acceptors, yet they all contain identical heme-copper (CuB) binuclear centers within their catalytic subunits. The uptake and delivery pathways of the CuB atom incorporated into this active site, where oxygen is reduced to water, are not well understood. Our previous work with the facultative phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus indicated that the copper atom needed for the CuB site of cbb3-type cytochrome c oxidase (cbb3-Cox) is imported to the cytoplasm by a major facilitator superfamily-type transporter, CcoA. In this study, a comparative genomic analysis of CcoA orthologs in alphaproteobacterial genomes showed that CcoA is widespread among organisms and frequently co-occurs with cytochrome c oxidases. To define the specificity of CcoA 	2018	12	11	mBio	mBio	CcoA; copper homeostasis; copper transport; copper uptake; cytochrome; cytochrome biogenesis; cytochrome c oxidase; Biological Transport; Copper; Electron Transport Complex IV; Membrane Transport Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khalfaoui-Hassani	Bahia
29486719	10.1186/s12866-018-1161-4	The PhyR homolog RSP_1274 of Rhodobacter sphaeroides is involved in defense of membrane stress and has a moderate effect on RpoE (RSP_1092) activity.	A major role of the PhyR-NepR-..(EcfG) cascade in the general stress response was demonstrated for some bacterial species and considered as conserved in Alphaproteobacteria. The ..(EcfG) factor activates its target genes in response to diverse stresses and NepR represents its anti-sigma factor. PhyR comprises a response regulator domain and a sigma factor domain and acts as anti-sigma factor antagonist. The facultative phototrophic alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides harbours a PhyR homolog in the same genomic context as found in other members of this class. Our study reveals increased expression of the phyR gene in response to superoxide, singlet oxygen, and diamide and also an effect of PhyR on rpoE expression. RpoE has a central role in mounting the response to singlet oxygen in R. sphaeroides. Despite these findings a mutant lacking PhyR was not significantly impeded in resistance to oxidative stress, heat stress or osmotic stress. However a role of PhyR in membrane stress	2019	3	11	BMC Microbiol	BMC microbiology	Alphaproteobacteria; Alternative sigma factors; Anti sigma factor; General stress response; Membrane stress; Oxidative stress; PhyR; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Loci; Heat-Shock Response; Osmotic Pressure; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; Protein Domains; RNA, Messenger; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sequence Deletion; Sigma Factor; Stress, Physiological; Transcriptome	Li	Qingfeng
29476751	10.1016/j.brainres.2018.02.026	Evidence of a role for spinal HMGB1 in ischemic stress-induced mechanical allodynia in mice.	We have previously showed that spinal high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) plays an important role in the induction of central post-stroke pain (CPSP). It has been reported that HMGB1 exacerbates inflammation and pain via TLR4 or RAGE. Furthermore, the relationship between glial cells, such as microglia and astrocytes, involved in pain exacerbation and HMGB1 has also attracted attention. In this study, we investigated whether the interaction between spinal glial cells and HMGB1 signaling, including its receptors TLR4 or RAGE, is directly involved in the induction of CPSP. Spinal HMGB1 expression increased on day 3 after bilateral carotid artery occlusion (BCAO), and spinal microglia and astrocytes were clearly activated. HMGB1 colocalized with neurons, but not with microglia and astrocytes after BCAO. Intrathecal (i.t.) injection of lipopolysaccharides from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS, a TLR4 antagonist) and low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH, a RAGE antagonist) significantly blocked 	2019	4	9	Brain Res	Brain research	Central post-stroke pain; Glial cells; High-mobility group box-1; Nitric oxide synthetase; Receptor for advanced glycation end-products; Toll-like receptor 4; Animals; Antibodies, Monoclonal; Brain Ischemia; Calcium-Binding Proteins; Disease Models, Animal; Enzyme Inhibitors; Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein; HMGB1 Protein; Hyperalgesia; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Mice; Microfilament Proteins; NG-Nitroarginine Methyl Ester; Neuroglia; Nitric Oxide Synthase; Phosphopyruvate Hydratase; Physical Stimulation; Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products; Spinal Cord; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Matsuura	Wataru
29413697	10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2018.01.027	The effect of light and temperature on the dynamic state of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers proteins determined from changes in tryptophan fluorescence lifetime and P<sup>+</sup>Q<sub>A</sub><sup>-</sup> recombination kinetics.	The temperature dependencies of the rate of dark recombination of separated charges between the photoactive bacteriochlorophyll and the primary quinone acceptor (QA) in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) of the purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rb. sphaeroides) were investigated. Measurements were performed in water-glycerol and trehalose environments after freezing to -180.....C in the dark and under actinic light with subsequent heating. Simultaneously, the RC tryptophanyl fluorescence lifetime in the spectral range between 323 and 348...nm was measured under these conditions. A correlation was found between the temperature dependencies of the functional and dynamic parameters of RCs in different solvent mixtures. For the first time, differences in the average fluorescence lifetime of tryptophanyl residues were measured between RCs frozen in the dark and in the actinic light. The obtained results can be explained by the RC transitions between different conformati	2018	4	6	J Photochem Photobiol B	Journal of photochemistry and photobiology. B, Biology	Fluorescence decay kinetics; Photosynthetic reaction center; Recombination kinetics; Temperature dependence; Tryptophan fluorescence; Benzoquinones; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Kinetics; Light; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Quantum Theory; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Temperature; Tryptophan	Knox	Peter P
29364305	10.1039/c7fd00190h	Engineered photoproteins that give rise to photosynthetically-incompetent bacteria are effective as photovoltaic materials for biohybrid photoelectrochemical cells.	Reaction centre/light harvesting proteins such as the RCLH1X complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides carry out highly quantum-efficient conversion of solar energy through ultrafast energy transfer and charge separation, and these pigment-proteins have been incorporated into biohybrid photoelectrochemical cells for a variety of applications. In this work we demonstrate that, despite not being able to support normal photosynthetic growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an engineered variant of this RCLH1X complex lacking the PufX protein and with an enlarged light harvesting antenna is unimpaired in its capacity for photocurrent generation in two types of bio-photoelectrochemical cells. Removal of PufX also did not impair the ability of the RCLH1 complex to act as an acceptor of energy from synthetic light harvesting quantum dots. Unexpectedly, the removal of PufX led to a marked improvement in the overall stability of the RCLH1 complex under heat stress. We conclude that PufX-deficient RCLH1 c	2019	6	13	Faraday Discuss	Faraday discussions	Electric Power Supplies; Luminescent Proteins; Photochemical Processes; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy	Liu	Juntai
29358565	10.7555/JBR.32.20170033	Microglia activation mediated by toll-like receptor-4 impairs brain white matter tracts in rats.	Microglia activation and white matter injury coexist after repeated episodes of mild brain trauma and ischemic stroke. Axon degeneration and demyelination can activate microglia; however, it is unclear whether early microglia activation can impair the function of white matter tracts and lead to injury. Rat corpus callosum (CC) slices were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or LPS + Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RS)-LPS that is a toll-like receptor 4 (TLR-4) antagonist. Functional changes reflected by the change of axon compound action potentials (CAPs) and the accumulation of ..-amyloid precursor protein (..-APP) in CC nerve fibers. Microglia activation was monitored by ionized calcium binding adaptor-1 immuno&amp;fllig;uorescent stain, based on well-established morphological criteria and paralleled proportional area measurement. Input-output (I/O) curves of CAPs in response to increased stimuli were signi&amp;filig;cantly downshifted in a dose-dependent manner in LPS (0.2,	2020	9	30	J Biomed Res	Journal of biomedical research	NA	Yang	Xinglong
29331716	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2018.01.017	Bioremediation of cadmium- and zinc-contaminated soil using Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Bioremediation using microorganisms is a promising technique to remediate soil contaminated with heavy metals. In this study, Rhodobacter sphaeroides was used to bioremediate soils contaminated with cadmium (Cd) and zinc (Zn). The study found that the treatment reduced the overall bioavailable fractions (e.g., exchangeable and carbonate bound phases) of Cd and Zn. More stable fractions (e.g., Fe-Mn oxide, organic bound, and residual phases (only for Zn)) increased after bioremediation. A wheat seedling experiment revealed that the phytoavailability of Cd was reduced after bioremediation using R...sphaeroides. After bioremediation, the exchangeable phases of Cd and Zn in soil were reduced by as much as 30.7% and 100.0%, respectively; the Cd levels in wheat leaf and root were reduced by as much as 62.3% and 47.2%, respectively. However, when the soils were contaminated with very high levels of Cd and Zn (Cd 54.97-65.33...mg...kg<sup>-1</sup>; Zn 813.4-964.8...mg...kg<sup>-1</sup>), biore	2018	5	17	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Bioremediation; Cadmium; Heavy metal; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Soil; Zinc; Biodegradation, Environmental; Cadmium; Metals, Heavy; Oxides; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Seedlings; Soil; Soil Pollutants; Triticum; Zinc	Peng	Weihua
29299674	10.1007/s00775-017-1531-7	Kinetic and spectroscopic characterization of tungsten-substituted DMSO reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	We have examined the kinetic and spectroscopic properties of a tungsten-substituted form of DMSO reductase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, an enzyme that normally possesses molybdenum. Partial reduction with sodium dithionite yields a well-resolved W(V) EPR signal of the so-called "high-g split" type that exhibits markedly greater g-anisotropy than the corresponding Mo(V) signal of the native form of the enzyme, with the g..values shifted to higher magnetic field by as much as ..gave..=..0.056. Deuteration of the enzyme confirms that the coupled proton is solvent-exchangeable, allowing us to accurately simulate the tungsten hyperfine coupling. Global curve-fitting analysis of UV/vis absorption spectra observed in the course of the reaction of the tungsten-substituted enzyme with sodium dithionite affords a well-defined absorption spectrum for the W(V) species. Surprisingly, the absorption spectrum for this species exhibits significantly larger molar extinction coefficients tha	2019	4	29	J Biol Inorg Chem	Journal of biological inorganic chemistry : JBIC : a publication of the Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry	DMSO reductase; Enzyme; Molybdenum; Spectroscopy; Tungsten; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Kinetics; Oxidoreductases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Tungsten	Pacheco	Josu..
29297256	10.1080/09168451.2017.1412247	Nitrite-reducing ability is related to growth inhibition by nitrite in Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans.	Growth inhibition of Rhodobacter sphaeroides f. sp. denitrificans IL106 by nitrite under anaerobic-light conditions became less pronounced when the gene encoding nitrite reductase was deleted. Growth of another deletion mutant of the genes encoding nitric oxide reductase was severely suppressed by nitrite. Our results suggest that nitrite reductase increases the sensitivity to nitrite through the production of nitric oxide.	2019	3	4	Biosci Biotechnol Biochem	Bioscience, biotechnology, and biochemistry	Denitrification; Rhodobacter; nitrite reductase; nitrite toxicity; photosynthetic bacteria; Gene Deletion; Nitrite Reductases; Nitrites; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shimizu	Takayuki
29172525	10.1021/acs.jpcb.7b08905	Role of Bath Fluctuations in the Double-Excitation Manifold in Shaping the 2DES of Bacterial Reaction Centers at Low Temperature.	Spectroscopically relevant properties in photosynthetic reaction centers change during charge separation. In this paper, we focus on incorporation of the complete set of environmental fluctuations in the modeling of the nonlinear spectra of molecular aggregates. The model is applied in simulations of two-dimensional electronic spectra of a photosynthetic reaction center at low temperature (5 K), where spectral lines are narrow, such that more features can be resolved. We show that vertical cross sections of the simulated two-dimensional spectra (with all populations in the lowest excited state) reveal transient hole-burned spectra excited resonantly within the B band in agreement with experiment, thus providing new insight into environmental fluctuation parameters of Rhodobacter sphaeroides at low temperatures. Correlated fluctuations of molecular parameters are found to be necessary to describe charge separated configurations of molecular excited states.	2018	5	18	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Aggregates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Rancova	Olga
29030845	10.1007/978-1-4939-7339-2_8	Nucleic Acid-Binding Assay of Argonaute Protein Using Fluorescence Polarization.	Nucleic acid binding by the Argonaute protein is an important trigger step in the Argonaute-dependent gene silencing system. We established an in vitro method to detect the nucleic acid binding activity of the Argonaute protein by fluorescence polarization. In this chapter, we will describe the expression and purification of the prokaryotic (Rhodobacter sphaeroides) Argonaute protein, and the nucleic acid-binding analysis using a Fluorescence Polarization System (Beacon 2000).	2018	5	30	Methods Mol Biol	Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)	Beacon 2000; Fluorescence polarization assay; Guide RNA; Purification of prokaryotic argonaute; Rhodobacter sphaeroides argonaute; Argonaute Proteins; Escherichia coli; Fluorescence Polarization; Gene Expression; Nucleic Acids; Prokaryotic Cells; Protein Binding; Recombinant Proteins	Miyoshi	Tomohiro
31911315	10.1016/j.biortech.2019.122642	Vitamin-C-enabled reduced graphene oxide chemistry for tuning biofilm phenotypes of methylotrophs on nickel electrodes in microbial fuel cells.	This study reports the use of multi-layered reduced graphene oxide (rGO) coating on porous nickel foam (NF) electrodes for enhancing biofilm growth of Rhodobacter Sphaeroides spp fed with methanol in microbial fuel cells (CH3OH-MFCs). Electrochemical methods were used to assess the methylotrophic activity on rGO/NF electrodes. The power density and current density offered by rGO/NF (1200 mW m<sup>-2</sup> and 680..mA..m<sup>-2</sup>) were 220-fold and 540-fold higher compared to bare NF (5.50 mW m<sup>-2</sup> and 1.26..mA..m<sup>-2</sup>), respectively. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy results show that rGO/NF suppresses charge transfer resistance to CH3OH oxidation by 40-fold compared to the control. This improved performance is due to the ability of rGO coatings to decrease the wetting contact angle (improve the hydrophilicity) of NF from 128<sup>0</sup> to 0<sup>0</sup>. A preliminary cost analysis was carried out to assess the viability of rGO/NF electr	2020	2	6	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Biofilm; Electrodes; Graphene; Methylotrophs; Microbial fuel cells; Ascorbic Acid; Bioelectric Energy Sources; Biofilms; Electrodes; Graphite; Nickel; Phenotype; Vitamins	Islam	Jamil
31892543	10.1073/pnas.1916119117	Switching sides-Reengineered primary charge separation in the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center.	We report 90% yield of electron transfer (ET) from the singlet excited state P* of the primary electron-donor P (a bacteriochlorophyll dimer) to the B-side bacteriopheophytin (HB) in the bacterial photosynthetic reaction center (RC). Starting from a platform Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC bearing several amino acid changes, an Arg in place of the native Leu at L185-positioned over one face of HB and only ...4 .. from the 4 central nitrogens of the HB macrocycle-is the key additional mutation providing 90% yield of P<sup>+</sup>HB <sup>-</sup> This all but matches the near-unity yield of A-side P<sup>+</sup>HA <sup>-</sup> charge separation in the native RC. The 90% yield of ET to HB derives from (minimally) 3 P* populations with distinct means of P* decay. In an ...40% population, P* decays in ...4 ps via a 2-step process involving a short-lived P<sup>+</sup>BB <sup>-</sup> intermediate, analogous to initia	2020	4	16	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	bacteriochlorophyll dimer; mutant reaction center; protein distributions; protein dynamics; ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy; Amino Acid Substitution; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Transport; Molecular Dynamics Simulation; Mutation; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Engineering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Laible	Philip D
31890925	10.1016/j.synbio.2019.11.001	Phosphate limitation increases coenzyme Q<sub>10</sub> production in industrial <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> HY01.	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an important component of the respiratory chain in humans and some bacteria. As a high-value-added nutraceutical antioxidant, CoQ10 has excellent capacity to prevent cardiovascular disease. The content of CoQ10 in the industrial Rhodobacter sphaeroides HY01 is hundreds of folds higher than normal physiological levels. In this study, we found that overexpression or optimization of the synthetic pathway failed CoQ10 overproduction in the HY01 strain. Moreover, under phosphate- limited conditions (decreased phosphate or in the absence of inorganic phosphate addition), CoQ10 production increased significantly by 12% to220..mg/L, biomass decreased by 12%, and the CoQ10 productivity of unit cells increased by 27%. In subsequent fed-batch fermentation, CoQ10 production reached 272..mg/L in the shake-flask fermentation and 1.95..g/L in a 100-L bioreactor under phosphate limita	2020	10	1	Synth Syst Biotechnol	Synthetic and systems biotechnology	CoQ10; Overproduction; Phosphate limitation; R sphaeroides; Scale-up; Transcriptome	Zhang	Lu
31844298	10.1038/s41564-019-0631-2	Control of nitrogen fixation in bacteria that associate with cereals.	Legumes obtain nitrogen from air through rhizobia residing in root nodules. Some species of rhizobia can colonize cereals but do not fix nitrogen on them. Disabling native regulation can turn on nitrogenase expression, even in the presence of nitrogenous fertilizer and low oxygen, but continuous nitrogenase production confers an energy burden. Here, we engineer inducible nitrogenase activity in two cereal endophytes (Azorhizobium caulinodans ORS571 and Rhizobium sp. IRBG74) and the well-characterized plant epiphyte Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5, a maize seed inoculant. For each organism, different strategies were taken to eliminate ammonium repression and place nitrogenase expression under the control of agriculturally relevant signals, including root exudates, biocontrol agents and phytohormones. We demonstrate that R. sp. IRBG74 can be engineered to result in nitrogenase activity under free-living conditions by transferring a nif cluster from either Rhodobacter sphaeroides or Klebsiella	2020	7	16	Nat Microbiol	Nature microbiology	Azorhizobium caulinodans; Bacterial Proteins; Edible Grain; Escherichia coli; Genes, Bacterial; Metabolic Engineering; Multigene Family; Nitrogen Fixation; Nitrogenase; Plant Root Nodulation; Pseudomonas; Rhizobium; Symbiosis	Ryu	Min-Hyung
31843486	10.1016/j.ymben.2019.12.004	Metabolic flux ratio analysis by parallel <sup>13</sup>C labeling of isoprenoid biosynthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Metabolic engineering for increased isoprenoid production often benefits from the simultaneous expression of the two naturally available isoprenoid metabolic routes, namely the 2-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway and the mevalonate (MVA) pathway. Quantification of the contribution of these pathways to the overall isoprenoid production can help to obtain a better understanding of the metabolism within a microbial cell factory. Such type of investigation can benefit from <sup>13</sup>C metabolic flux ratio studies. Here, we designed a method based on parallel labeling experiments (PLEs), using [1-<sup>13</sup>C]- and [4-<sup>13</sup>C]glucose as tracers to quantify the metabolic flux ratios in the glycolytic and isoprenoid pathways. By just analyzing a reporter isoprenoid molecule and employing only four equations, we could describe the metabolism involved from substrate catabolism to product formation. These equations infer <sup>13</sup>C atom incorporation into the universa	2021	1	27	Metab Eng	Metabolic engineering	(13)C metabolic flux ratios analysis; Isoprenoid biosynthesis; MEP; MVA; Parallel labeling experiments; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Erythritol; Metabolic Engineering; Metabolic Flux Analysis; Mevalonic Acid; Models, Biological; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sugar Phosphates; Terpenes	Orsi	Enrico
31835540	10.3390/microorganisms7120671	Multiple Sense and Antisense Promoters Contribute to the Regulated Expression of the <i>isc-suf</i> Operon for Iron-Sulfur Cluster Assembly in <i>Rhodobacter</i>.	A multitude of biological functions relies on iron-sulfur clusters. The formation of photosynthetic complexes goes along with an additional demand for iron-sulfur clusters for bacteriochlorophyll synthesis and photosynthetic electron transport. However, photooxidative stress leads to the destruction of iron-sulfur clusters, and the released iron promotes the formation of further reactive oxygen species. A balanced regulation of iron-sulfur cluster synthesis is required to guarantee the supply of this cofactor, on the one hand, but also to limit stress, on the other hand. The phototrophic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides harbors a large operon for iron-sulfur cluster assembly comprising the iscRS and suf genes. IscR (iron-sulfur cluster regulator) is an iron-dependent regulator of isc-suf genes and other genes with a role in iron metabolism. We applied reporter gene fusions to identify promoters of the isc-suf o	2020	9	28	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Irr; IscR; OxyR; antisense promoters; iron-sulfur cluster; isc genes; suf genes	Nie	Xin
31796818	10.1038/s41598-019-54617-w	Effect of ultrapure lipopolysaccharides derived from diverse bacterial species on the modulation of platelet activation.	Platelets are small circulating blood cells that play essential roles in the maintenance of haemostasis via blood clotting. However, they also play critical roles in the regulation of innate immune responses. Inflammatory receptors, specifically Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4, have been reported to modify platelet reactivity. A plethora of studies have reported controversial functions of TLR4 in the modulation of platelet function using various chemotypes and preparations of its ligand, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The method of preparation of LPS may explain these discrepancies however this is not fully understood. Hence, to determine the impact of LPS on platelet activation, we used ultrapure preparations of LPS from Escherichia coli (LPSEC), Salmonella minnesota (LPSSM), and Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPSRS) and examined their actions under diverse experimental conditions in human platelets. LPSEC did not affect platelet activation markers such as 	2020	11	13	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Blood Platelets; Escherichia coli; Humans; Lipopolysaccharides; NF-kappa B; Platelet Activation; Platelet Aggregation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Salmonella; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Vallance	Thomas M
31767004	10.1186/s12934-019-1255-1	Efficient Cas9-based genome editing of Rhodobacter sphaeroides for metabolic engineering.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a metabolically versatile bacterium that serves as a model for analysis of photosynthesis, hydrogen production and terpene biosynthesis. The elimination of by-products formation, such as poly-..-hydroxybutyrate (PHB), has been an important metabolic engineering target for R. sphaeroides. However, the lack of efficient markerless genome editing tools for R. sphaeroides is a bottleneck for fundamental studies and biotechnological exploitation. The Cas9 RNA-guided DNA-endonuclease from the type II CRISPR-Cas system of Streptococcus pyogenes (SpCas9) has been extensively employed for the development of genome engineering tools for prokaryotes and eukaryotes, but not for R. sphaeroides. Here we describe the development of a highly efficient SpCas9-based genomic DNA targeting system for R. sphaeroides, which we combine with plasmid-borne homologous recombination (HR) templates developing a Cas9-based markerless and time-effective genome editing tool. We further emp	2020	4	8	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Cas9; Genome editing; PHB; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; CRISPR-Cas Systems; Gene Editing; Genome, Bacterial; Homologous Recombination; Hydroxybutyrates; Metabolic Engineering; Polyesters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mougiakos	Ioannis
31757137	10.1063/1.5128783	<sup>15</sup>N photo-CIDNP MAS NMR analysis of a bacterial photosynthetic reaction center of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wildtype.	The solid-state photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) effect has been studied in a quinone-depleted uniformly (u-)<sup>13</sup>C,<sup>15</sup>N-labeled photosynthetic reaction center (RC) protein from purple bacterium Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides wild type (WT). As a method for investigation, solid-state <sup>15</sup>N NMR under magic-angle spinning (MAS) is applied under both continuous illumination (steady state) and nanosecond-laser flashes (time-resolved). While all previous <sup>15</sup>N photo-CIDNP MAS NMR studies on the purple bacterial RC used the carotenoid-less mutant R26, this is the first using WT samples. The absence of further photo-CIDNP mechanisms (compared to R26) and various couplings (compared to <sup>13</sup>C NMR experiments on <sup>13</sup>C-labeled samples) allows the simplification of the spin-system. We report <sup>15</sup>N signals of the three cofactors forming the spin-correlated radical pair (SCRP) and, based on density-functio	2019	11	28	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Models, Molecular; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Paul	Shubhajit
31756653	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.125166	Removal of mercury(II), lead(II) and cadmium(II) from aqueous solutions using Rhodobacter sphaeroides SC01.	Microorganisms and microbial products can be highly efficient in uptaking soluble and particulate forms of heavy metals, particularly from solutions. In this study, the removal efficiency, oxidative damage, antioxidant system, and the possible removal mechanisms were investigated in Rhodobacter (R.) sphaeroides SC01 under mercury (Hg), lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) stress. The results showed that SC01 had the highest removal rates (98%) of Pb among three heavy metals. Compared with Hg and Cd stress, Pb stress resulted in a lower levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cell death. In contrast, the activities of four antioxidant enzymes in SC01 under Pb stress was higher than that of Hg and Cd stress. Furthermore, the analysis from fourier transform infrared spectroscopy indicated that complexation of Pb with hydroxyl, amid and phosphate groups was found in SC01 under Pb stress. In addition, X-ray diffraction analysis showed that precipitate of lead phosphate hydroxide was produced on t	2020	4	3	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Antioxidant system; Biosorption; Heavy metal; Reactive oxygen species; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Biodegradation, Environmental; Cadmium; Lead; Mercury; Metals, Heavy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Su	Yan-Qiu
31746367	10.3892/ijmm.2019.4402	HMGB1 participates in LPS...induced acute lung injury by..activating the AIM2 inflammasome in macrophages..and inducing polarization of M1 macrophages via TLR2, TLR4, and RAGE/NF.....B signaling pathways.	High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), a crucial proinflammatory cytokine, was reported to activate the absent in melanoma..2 (AIM2) inflammasome, which are both essential in acute lung injury (ALI). However, their interaction mechanism has remained elusive. Macrophages are known to express the AIM2 inflammasome and the main receptors [receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE), Toll...like receptor..2/4 (TLR...2/TLR...4)] of HMGB1 to transmit intracellular signals. The present study aimed to indicate whether HMGB1 participates in the process of lipopolysaccharides (LPS)...induced ALI through activating the AIM2 inflammasome in macrophages, as well as inducing polarization of M1 macrophages via TLR2, TLR4 and RAGE/ nuclear factor.....B (NF.....B) signaling pathways. In an in..vivo mouse model of LPS...induced ALI, anti...HMGB1, recombinant (r)HMGB1, LPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS...RS, TLR2/4 antagonist) or FPS...ZM1 (RAGE antagonist) were administrated. In in..vitro studie	2020	6	10	Int J Mol Med	International journal of molecular medicine	acute lung injury; high mobility group box 1; polarization of M1 macrophages; absent in melanoma 2 inflammasome; cytokines	Wang	Jing
31736915	10.3389/fmicb.2019.02480	Taxogenomics Resolves Conflict in the Genus <i>Rhodobacter</i>: A Two and Half Decades Pending Thought to Reclassify the Genus <i>Rhodobacter</i>.	The genus Rhodobacter is taxonomically well studied, and some members are model organisms. However, this genus is comprised of a heterogeneous group of members. 16S rRNA gene-based phylogeny of the genus Rhodobacter indicates a motley assemblage of anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria (genus Rhodobacter) with interspersing members of other genera (chemotrophs) making the genus polyphyletic. Taxogenomics was performed to resolve the taxonomic conflicts of the genus Rhodobacter using twelve type strains. The phylogenomic analysis showed that Rhodobacter spp. can be grouped into four monophyletic clusters with interspersing chemotrophs. Genomic indices (ANI and dDDH) confirmed that all the current species are well defined, except Rhodobacter megalophilus. The average amino acid identity values between the monophyletic clusters of Rhodobacter members, as well as with the chemotrophic genera, are less than 80% whereas the percentage of con	2020	9	28	Front Microbiol	Frontiers in microbiology	Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter reclassification; Rhodobacter sensu stricto; gen. nov.; photosynthetic gene cluster; phylogenomics; proposal of 3 new phototrophic genera; taxogenomics	Suresh	G
31733183	10.1016/j.bbabio.2019.148116	Structural changes at the surface of cytochrome c oxidase alter the proton-pumping stoichiometry.	Data from earlier studies showed that minor structural changes at the surface of cytochrome c oxidase, in one of the proton-input pathways (the D pathway), result in dramatically decreased activity and a lower proton-pumping stoichiometry. To further investigate how changes around the D pathway orifice influence functionality of the enzyme, here we modified the nearby C-terminal loop of subunit I of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase. Removal of 16 residues from this flexible surface loop resulted in a decrease in the proton-pumping stoichiometry to &lt;50% of that of the wild-type enzyme. Replacement of the protonatable residue Glu552, part of the same loop, by an Ala, resulted in a similar decrease in the proton-pumping stoichiometry without loss of the O2-reduction activity or changes in the proton-uptake kinetics. The data show that minor structural changes at the orifice of the D pathway, at a distance of ~40..... from the proton gate of cytochrome c oxida	2020	2	18	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Actinobacteria; Electron transfer; Mitochondria; Mycobacterium smegmatis; Proton pumping; Respiratory chain; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport Complex IV; Protein Structure, Secondary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Berg	Johan
31696284	10.1007/s00253-019-10199-1	Engineering the transcriptional activator NifA for the construction of Rhodobacter sphaeroides strains that produce hydrogen gas constitutively.	Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris produce hydrogen gas (H2) via proton reduction, which is catalyzed by nitrogenase. Although the expression of nitrogenase is usually repressed under nitrogen-sufficient conditions, a partial deletion of nifA, which encodes a transcriptional activator of nitrogen-fixation genes, has been reported to enable the constitutive expression of nitrogenase in R. palustris. In this study, we evaluated the effects of a similar mutation (nifA* mutation) on H2 production during the photoheterotrophic growth of R. sphaeroides, based on the notion that H2 production by nitrogenase compensates for the loss of CO2 fixation via the Calvin cycle, thereby restoring the redox balance. The chromosomal nifA* mutation resulted in the slight restoration of the photoheterotrophic growth of a mutant strain lacking ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rub	2020	3	26	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Calvin cycle; Hydrogen production; NifA; Nitrogenase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Hydrogen; Mutation; Nitrogen; Nitrogenase; Oxidation-Reduction; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Shimizu	Tetsu
31693470	10.1134/S000629791909013X	Spectral and Photochemical Properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 Reaction Center Films in Vacuum.	Using absorption spectroscopy in the visible/near-IR and mid-IR regions, spectral and photochemical properties of isolated reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 were studied in dried films on the inorganic support surface (quartz or CaF2 plates) under vacuum dehydration conditions (10<sup>-2</sup> or 7..10<sup>-5</sup> mm Hg). Three detergents, N,N-dimethyldodecylamine N-oxide (LDAO), Triton X-100 (TX100), and n-dodecyl-..-D-maltoside (DM), were tested for their ability to stabilize the RC-detergent complexes in the vacuum-dried state. It was shown that in the presence of LDAO, RC complexes underwent destruction in vacuum. In contrast, DM provided an environment that minimized irreversible disruptive changes in the RCs in vacuum. The effects of vacuum dehydration on the RC-DM films included a small increase in the content of ..-helices in the RC protein, a short-wavelength reversible shift in the optical transitions of pigments, and minor changes in the el	2019	11	14	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Surface Properties; Vacuum	Zabelin	A A
31678067	10.1016/j.jbiosc.2019.10.005	Quantification, regulation and production of 5-aminolevulinic acid by green fluorescent protein in recombinant Escherichia coli.	5-Aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) is an unnatural amino acid and has been approved as a biodegradable, non-toxic pesticide and herbicide with applications in sustainable agriculture. 5-ALA can also be applied for cancer targeting via tumor localization and photodynamic therapy. Herein, we developed a feasible quantification, regulation and production method of 5-ALA in Escherichia coli is based on the chimera of 5-ALA synthetase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RshemA) and super-fold green fluorescent protein (sfGFP) under the control of dual promoters/double plasmids. 5-ALA production based on quantification with the reporter sfGFP was unsuccessfully for the RshemA-sfGFP fusion protein owing to a steric hindrance effect, but was effective using dual constitutive promoters (i.e., J23100 and PLacI) for RshemA and sfGFP independently. Moreover, a simple quantification method based on the linear relationship between 5-ALA concentration and the change in sfGFP intensity was calculated 	2020	6	8	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	5-Aminolevulinic acid; Escherichia coli; Fusion protein; Regulation; Super-fold green fluorescent protein; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Aminolevulinic Acid; Escherichia coli; Fermentation; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Levulinic Acids; Metabolic Engineering; Organisms, Genetically Modified; Plasmids; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tan	Shih-I
31658746	10.3390/ijms20205019	Directed Evolution of an Improved Rubisco; In Vitro Analyses to Decipher Fact from Fiction.	Inaccuracies in biochemically characterizing the amount and CO2-fixing properties of the photosynthetic enzyme Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase/oxygenase continue to hamper an accurate evaluation of Rubisco mutants selected by directed evolution. Here, we outline an analytical pipeline for accurately quantifying Rubisco content and kinetics that averts the misinterpretation of directed evolution outcomes. Our study utilizes a new T7-promoter regulated Rubisco Dependent Escherichia coli (RDE3) screen to successfully select for the first Rhodobacter sphaeroides Rubisco (RsRubisco) mutant with improved CO2-fixing properties. The RsRubisco contains four amino acid substitutions in the large subunit (RbcL) and an improved carboxylation rate (kcat<sup>C</sup>, up 27%), carboxylation efficiency (kcat<sup>C</sup>/Km for CO2, increased 17%), unchanged CO2/O<s	2020	3	31	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	carbon fixation; metabolic engineering; photosynthesis; synthetic biology; Amino Acid Sequence; Amino Acid Substitution; Carbon Cycle; Cyanobacteria; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Kinetics; Metabolic Engineering; Models, Molecular; Mutation; Photosynthesis; Protein Conformation; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase	Zhou	Yu
31641987	10.1007/s11120-019-00680-3	Bound manganese oxides capable of reducing the bacteriochlorophyll dimer of modified reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	A biohybrid model system is described that interfaces synthetic Mn-oxides with bacterial reaction centers to gain knowledge concerning redox reactions by metal clusters in proteins, in particular the Mn4CaO5 cluster of photosystem II. The ability of Mn-oxides to bind to modified bacterial reaction centers and transfer an electron to the light-induced oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P<sup>+</sup>, was characterized using optical spectroscopy. The environment of P was altered to obtain a high P/P<sup>+</sup> midpoint potential. In addition, different metal-binding sites were introduced by substitution of amino acid residues as well as extension of the C-terminus of the M subunit with the C-terminal region of the D1 subunit of photosystem II. The Mn-compounds MnO2, ..Mn2O3, Mn3O4, CaMn2O4, and Mn3(PO4)2 were tested and compared to MnCl2. In gen	2020	9	16	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial reaction centers; Electron transfer; Mn-cofactors; Optical spectroscopy; Secondary electron donors; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Light; Manganese Compounds; Models, Molecular; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxides; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Espiritu	Eduardo
31620983	10.1007/s11120-019-00677-y	Sequential energy transfer driven by monoexponential dynamics in a biohybrid light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2).	Enhancing the light-harvesting potential of antenna components in a system of solar energy conversion is an important topic in the field of artificial photosynthesis. We constructed a biohybrid light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) engineered from Rhodobacter sphaeroides IL106 strain. An artificial fluorophore Alexa Fluor 647 maleimide (A647) was attached to the LH2 bearing cysteine residue at the N-terminal region (LH2-NC) near B800 bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl) assembly. The A647-attached LH2-NC conjugate (LH2-NC-A647) preserved the integrity of the intrinsic chromophores, B800- and B850-BChls, and carotenoids. Femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy revealed that the sequential energy transfer A647.........B800.........B850 occurs at time scale of 9-10..ps with monoexponential dynamics in micellar and lipid bilayer systems. A B800-removed conjugate (LH2-NC[B800(-)]-A647) exhibited a significant decrease in energy transfer efficiency in the micellar system; however, surprisingly, dir	2020	9	16	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Biohybrid antenna; Femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy; Light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2); Lipid bilayer; Monoexponential dynamics; Sequential energy transfer; Amino Acid Sequence; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Lipid Bilayers; Micelles; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solutions; Spectrometry, Fluorescence; Time Factors	Yoneda	Yusuke
31615130	10.3390/ijms20205095	Mechanism of Signalling and Adaptation through the <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Cytoplasmic Chemoreceptor Cluster.	Rhodobacter <b/>sphaeroides has two chemotaxis clusters, an Escherichia coli-like cluster with membrane-spanning chemoreceptors and a less-understood cytoplasmic cluster. The cytoplasmic CheA is split into CheA4, a kinase, and CheA3, a His-domain phosphorylated by CheA4 and a phosphatase domain, which together phosphorylate and dephosphorylate motor-stopping CheY6. In bacterial two-hybrid analysis, one major cytoplasmic chemoreceptor, TlpT, interacted with CheA4, while the other, TlpC, interacted with CheA3. Both clusters have associated adaptation proteins. Deleting their methyltransferases and methylesterases singly and together removed chemotaxis, but with opposite effects. The cytoplasmic cluster signal overrode the membrane cluster signal. Methylation and demethylation of specific chemoreceptor glutamates controls adaptation. Tandem mass spectroscopy and bioinformatics identified four putative s	2020	2	21	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Rhodobacter; adaptation; chemoreceptors; chemotaxis; cytoplasmic signalling; mass spectrometry; methyl-accepting chemotaxis proteins; signal integration; signal transduction; Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Proteins; Chemoreceptor Cells; Chemotaxis; Cytoplasm; Cytosol; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Deletion; Histidine Kinase; Methyl-Accepting Chemotaxis Proteins; Phosphorylation; Protein Processing, Post-Translational; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Beyer	Jennifer A de
31579997	10.1111/1462-2920.14809	Adaptation of the Alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides to stationary phase.	Exhaustion of nutritional resources stimulates bacterial populations to adapt their growth behaviour. General mechanisms are known to facilitate this adaptation by sensing the environmental change and coordinating gene expression. However, the existence of such mechanisms among the Alphaproteobacteria remains unclear. This study focusses on global changes in transcript levels during growth under carbon-limiting conditions in a model Alphaproteobacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a metabolically diverse organism capable of multiple modes of growth including aerobic and anaerobic respiration, anaerobic anoxygenic photosynthesis and fermentation. We identified genes that showed changed transcript levels independently of oxygen levels during the adaptation to stationary phase. We selected a subset of these genes and subjected them to mutational analysis, including genes predicted to be involved in manganese uptake, polyhydroxybutyrate production and quorum sensing and an alternative sigma 	2020	5	5	Environ Microbiol	Environmental microbiology	Adaptation, Physiological; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Cycle; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor	McIntosh	Matthew
31539255	10.1021/acs.jpcb.9b08388	Influence of Hydrogen Bonds on the Electron-Phonon Coupling Strength/Marker Mode Structure and Charge Separation Rates in Reaction Centers from <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Low-temperature persistent and transient hole-burning (HB) spectra are presented for the triple hydrogen-bonded L131LH + M160LH + M197FH mutant of Rhodobacter sphaeroides. These spectra expose the heterogeneous nature of the P-, B-, and H-bands, consistent with a distribution of electron transfer (ET) times and excitation energy transfer (EET) rates. Transient P<sup>+</sup>QA<sup>-</sup> holes are observed for fast (tens of picoseconds or faster) ET times and reveal strong coupling to phonons and marker mode(s), while the persistent holes are bleached in a fraction of reaction centers with long-lived excited states characterized by much weaker electron-phonon coupling. Exposed differences in electron-phonon coupling strength, as well as a different coupling to the marker mode(s), appear to affect the ET times. Both resonantly and nonresonantly burned persistent HB spectra show weak blue- (...150 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and large, red-shifted (...300 cm<sup>-1</	2020	8	19	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Electrons; Energy Transfer; Hydrogen Bonding; Phonons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khmelnitskiy	Anton
31532642	10.1021/acs.biochem.9b00646	Definition of the Interaction Domain and Electron Transfer Route between Cytochrome c and Cytochrome Oxidase.	The reaction between cytochrome c (Cc) and cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) was studied using horse cytochrome c derivatives labeled with ruthenium trisbipyridine at Cys 39 (Ru-39-Cc). Flash photolysis of a 1:1 complex between Ru-39-Cc and bovine CcO at a low ionic strength resulted in the electron transfer from photoreduced heme c to CuA with an intracomplex rate constant of k3 = 6 .. 10<sup>4</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. The K13A, K72A, K86A, and K87A Ru-39-Cc mutants had nearly the same k3 value but bound much more weakly to bovine CcO than wild-type Ru-39-Cc, indicating that lysines 13, 72, 86, and 87 were involved in electrostatic binding to CcO, but were not involved in the electron transfer pathway. The Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rs) W143F mutant (bovine W104) caused a 450-fold decrease in k3 but did not affect the binding strength with CcO or the redox potential of CuA.	2020	6	10	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Animals; Cattle; Coordination Complexes; Copper; Cytochromes c; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Ethylene Glycol; Heme; Horses; Mutation; Photolysis; Protein Domains; Ruthenium	Scharlau	Martha
31515339	10.1128/MRA.00652-19	Complete Genome Sequence of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Strain HJ, a Purple Nonsulfur Bacterium with the Ability To Produce High Levels of Hydrogen from Acetate.	Previously, Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain HJ was isolated to obtain a purple nonsulfur bacterium with the ability to produce high levels of hydrogen from acetate. However, the genome of this strain has not been previously sequenced. Therefore, the complete genome sequence of R. sphaeroides strain HJ is presented in this report.	2020	10	1	Microbiol Resour Announc	Microbiology resource announcements	NA	Kobayashi	Jyumpei
31476902	10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.119.13022	TLR (Toll-Like Receptor) 4 Antagonism Prevents Left Ventricular Hypertrophy and Dysfunction Caused by Neonatal Hyperoxia Exposure in Rats.	Preterm birth is associated with proinflammatory conditions and alterations in adult cardiac shape and function. Neonatal exposure to high oxygen, a rat model of prematurity-related conditions, leads to cardiac remodeling, fibrosis, and dysfunction. TLR (Toll-like receptor) 4 signaling is a critical link between oxidative stress, inflammation, and the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. The current study sought to investigate the role of TLR4 signaling in neonatal oxygen-induced cardiomyopathy. Male Sprague-Dawley pups were kept in 80% oxygen or room air from day 3 to 10 of life and treated with TLR4 antagonist lipopolysaccharide from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides(LPS-RS) or saline. Echocardiography was performed at 4, 7, and 12 weeks. At 12 weeks, intraarterial blood pressure was measured before euthanization for histological and biochemical analyses. At day 10, cardiac TLR4, Il (interleukin) 18, and Il1.. expression were increased in oxygen-exposed 	2019	11	25	Hypertension	Hypertension (Dallas, Tex. : 1979)	blood pressure; heart; hyperoxia; inflammation; oxygen; Animals; Animals, Newborn; Cytokines; Disease Models, Animal; Hyperoxia; Hypertrophy, Left Ventricular; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Reactive Oxygen Species; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Ventricular Dysfunction, Left	Mian	Muhammad Oneeb Rehman
31372558	10.1016/j.heliyon.2019.e02108	Use of a system of differential equations to analyze the functioning of a catalytic bio macromolecule under non equilibrium conditions.	The aim of the work is to analyze the response of a biomolecule to an external influence based on the study of its hidden states by identifying differential equations with constant coefficients. The relevance of the work lies in the fact that often the main reaction of an object to an external action can be represented as a sum of various exponential functions with a common starting point and a material balance equation. In this case, the response of an object to an external action corresponds to a system of differential equations with constant coefficients. This character of the main reaction may be due to the influence of the hidden properties of the object, which play the role of regulatory parameters. The problem is that the hidden factors and the system of differential equations are not identified. As an object, isolated reaction centers (RC) of the bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides , which possess the above properties, has used. Their stru	2020	10	1	Heliyon	Heliyon	Biophysics; Electron transport; Electron-conformational sub states; Mathematical model; Reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Structural self-regulation	Barabash	Y M
31368704	10.1021/acs.jafc.9b02597	Elevated ..-Carotene Synthesis by the Engineered <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> with Enhanced CrtY Expression.	..-Carotene is a precursor of vitamin A and a dietary supplement for its antioxidant property. Producing ..-carotene by microbial fermentation has attracted much attention owing to consumers' preference for the natural product. In this study, an engineered photosynthetic Rhodobacter sphaeroides producing ..-carotene was constructed by the following strategies: (1) five promoters of different strengths were used to investigate the effect of the expression level of crtY on ..-carotene content. It was found that PrrnB increased the ..-carotene content by 109%. (2) blocking of the branched pentose phosphate pathway by zwf deletion, and (3) overexpressing dxs could restore the transcriptional levels of crtE and crtB. Finally, the engineered RS-C3 has the highest ..-carotene content of 14.93 mg/g dry cell weight (DCW) among all of the reported photosynthetic bacteria and the ..-carotene content reached 3.34 mg/g DCW under light cond	2019	10	24	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	 gene; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; photosynthetic bacteria; promoters; ..-carotene; Bacterial Proteins; Fermentation; Intramolecular Lyases; Light; Metabolic Engineering; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; beta Carotene	Qiang	Shan
31326501	10.1016/j.pep.2019.105456	Characterisation of the ligand binding sites in the translocator protein TSPO using the chimeric bacterial-mammalian constructs.	The translocator protein TSPO is in an important diagnostic and therapeutic target in a range of pathologies, including neuroinflammation and cancer. Despite the availability of several structures of TSPO homologues, our understanding of the molecular determinants that govern high-affinity interactions of TSPO with its ligands is incomplete. Here, in order to decipher the key structural elements of TSPO responsible for interactions with its ligands, we designed a panel of chimeric proteins mimicking the mammalian substrate binding site grafted onto the backbone of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides TSPO homologue, RsTSPO. One of the designed chimeric constructs, RsMouse, could be heterologously expressed and displayed improved binding affinities for the known TSPO drugs diazepam, PK11195 and NBD-FGIN-1-27. Furthermore, the chimeric protein had improved interactions with NBD-cholesterol, a fluorescent analogue of the presumed natural substrate of TSPO. Partial modifications of the transmembran	2020	7	6	Protein Expr Purif	Protein expression and purification	Amino Acid Sequence; Animals; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Cattle; Cloning, Molecular; Diazepam; Drug Discovery; Humans; Isoquinolines; Mice; Molecular Docking Simulation; Protein Conformation; Receptors, GABA; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Graeber	Elisabeth
31324886	10.1038/s41598-019-46903-4	Studying hydrogen bonding and dynamics of the acetylate groups of the Special Pair of Rhodobacter sphaeroides WT.	Although the cofactors in the bacterial reaction centre of Rhodobacter sphaeroides wild type (WT) are arranged almost symmetrically in two branches, the light-induced electron transfer occurs selectively in one branch. As origin of this functional symmetry break, a hydrogen bond between the acetyl group of PL in the primary donor and His-L168 has been discussed. In this study, we investigate the existence and rigidity of this hydrogen bond with solid-state photo-CIDNP MAS NMR methods offering information on the local electronic structure due to highly sensitive and selective NMR experiments. On the time scale of the experiment, the hydrogen bond between PL and His-L168 appears to be stable and not to be affected by illumination confirming a structural asymmetry within the Special Pair.	2020	11	2	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Bacteriochlorophyll A; Electron Transport; Hydrogen Bonding; Models, Molecular; Molecular Structure; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Gr..sing	Daniel
35519485	10.1039/c9ra03964c	Efficient production of coenzyme Q<sub>10</sub> from acid hydrolysate of sweet sorghum juice by <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	In order to achieve efficient bioconversion of biomass-derived sugars, acid hydrolysate of sweet sorghum juice (SSJAH) containing abundant fermentable sugars was used for coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) fermentation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides CQ-09-1. The synthesis of CoQ10 was facilitated when the initial concentration of total sugar was 80.00 g L<sup>-1</sup>. And the highest CoQ10 titer was obtained when the pH and temperature were maintained at 7.00 and 30.00 ..C, respectively. Moreover, corn steep powder (CSP) was proved to be an efficient nitrogen &amp; salt supplement to SSJAH. Under the optimized conditions, the titer of CoQ10 reached 141.95 mg L<sup>-1</sup> in a fed-batch fermentation. The CoQ10 titer reported was about two times higher than that obtained in the previous study using wild strains. This process introduces a potential way to produce CoQ10 using the concept of biorefinery, while making full 	2022	7	16	RSC Adv	RSC advances	NA	Wang	Y
31307465	10.1186/s12917-019-1997-3	Canine platelets express functional Toll-like receptor-4: lipopolysaccharide-triggered platelet activation is dependent on adenosine diphosphate and thromboxane A2 in dogs.	Functional Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) has been characterized in human and murine platelets indicating that platelets play a role in inflammation and hemostasis during sepsis. It is unclear whether canine platelets could express functional TLR4 by responding to its ligand, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We sought to determine if dogs express functional TLR4 and if LPS-induced platelet activation requires co-stimulation with ADP or thromboxane A2 (TxA2). Canine platelets were unstimulated (resting) or activated with thrombin or ADP prior to flow cytometric or microscopic analyses for TLR4 expression. We treated resting or ADP-primed platelets with LPS in the absence or presence of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and inhibited TLR4 with function blocking antibody or LPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS). We discovered that dog platelets have variable TLR4 expression, which was upregulated following thrombin or ADP activation. LPS augmented P-selectin expression and thromboxane B2 secretion in 	2019	12	3	BMC Vet Res	BMC veterinary research	Aspirin; Inflammation; Pattern recognition receptor; Platelet-priming; Sepsis; Thrombosis; Adenosine Diphosphate; Animals; Aspirin; Blood Platelets; Dogs; Lipopolysaccharides; Platelet Activation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thromboxane A2; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Li	Ronald H L
31240593	10.1007/s11120-019-00654-5	Economical synthesis of <sup>14</sup>C-labeled aminolevulinic acid for specific in situ labeling of plant tetrapyrroles.	The application of metabolic radiolabeling techniques to plant tetrapyrroles, i.e., chlorophyll and hemes, is complicated by the difficulty of obtaining sufficient quantities of radiolabeled aminolevulinic acid (ALA). ALA, the first committed intermediate in the tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathway, is inconvenient to synthesize chemically and is generally not produced in significant quantities in biological systems. Radiolabeled ALA is therefore usually quite expensive and available only in limited quantities. Here, we describe bulk biosynthesis and purification of <sup>14</sup>C-labeled ALA from <sup>14</sup>C glycine. We first cloned ALA synthase (ALAS) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides into an expression vector for expression and purification as a fusion with maltose-binding protein. We then used the purified ALAS to synthesize ALA in vitro from <sup>14</sup>C-labeled glycine and succinyl-coenzyme A. Finally, we used ion exchange chromatography to separate the ALA product from the crude re	2020	4	6	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	14C aminolevulinic acid; 14C chlorophyll; 14C tetrapyrroles; Radiographic imaging; Tetrapyrrole pigment tracking; 5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Carbon Radioisotopes; Glycine; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Staining and Labeling; Tetrapyrroles	Schwarz	Eliezer M
31238864	10.1134/S0006297919060075	Algorithm for Extracting Weak Bands Kinetics from the Transient Absorption Spectra of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Center.	An algorithm to extract kinetics of the ion radical bands from the strong absorption background in the transient absorption spectra of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers upon femtosecond excitation of the primary electron donor is suggested. The rising kinetics of the transient absorption band at 1020 nm and the bleaching kinetics of the 545-nm band constructed using the proposed method are adequately fitted by the kinetic equations for sequential electron transfer from the excited primary donor to the BA (monomeric bacteriochlorophyll) molecule, and then to the HA (bacteriopheophytin serving as an electron acceptor) molecule with the rate constants of 3.5 .. 0.2 and 0.8 .. 0.1 ps, respectively. The kinetics of the bacteriochlorophyll absorption band at 600 nm shows both the ultrafast bleaching of the P870 dimer and slower bleaching of the BA monomer due to its transition to the anion radical. The plotted kinetics of the ion radical	2019	7	18	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Algorithms; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khatypov	R A
31234771	10.1134/S0006297919050110	Properties of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Centers with the Ile...Tyr Substitution at Positions L177 and M206.	Studying pigment-protein interactions in the photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) is important for the understanding of detailed mechanisms of the photochemical process. This paper describes spectral and photochemical characteristics, pigment composition, and stability of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides RCs with the I(L177)Y and I(M206)Y amino acid substitutions. The obtained data are compared with the properties of I(L177)H, I(L177)D, and I(M206)H RCs reported previously. It is shown that the I(L177)Y and I(M206)Y mutations cause a similar shift of the QYP band in the absorption spectra of the mutant RCs and do not affect the distribution of the electron spin density within the photo-oxidized P<sup>+</sup> dimer. The differences in the position and amplitude of the QYB band in the I(L177)Y and I(M206)Y RCs were determined. The results indicate the possibility of new pigment-protein interactions in the vicinity of monomeric bacteriochlorophylls in the A and B chains,	2019	6	27	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry	Fufina	T Yu
31234766	10.1134/S0006297919050067	Effect of Leucine M196 Substitution by Histidine on Electronic Structure of the Primary Electron Donor and Electron Transfer in Reaction Centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	In our recent X-ray study, we demonstrated that substitution of the natural leucine residue M196 with histidine in the reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides leads to formation of a close contact between the genetically introduced histidine and the primary electron donor P (bacteriochlorophylls (BChls) PA and PB dimer) creating a novel pigment-protein interaction that is not observed in native RCs. In the present work, the possible nature of this novel interaction and its effects on the electronic properties of P and the photochemical charge separation in isolated mutant RCs L(M196)H are investigated at room temperature using steady-state absorption spectroscopy, light-induced difference FTIR spectroscopy, and femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy. The results are compared with the data obtained for the RCs from Rba. sphaeroides pseudo-wild type strain. It is shown that the L(M196)H mutation results in a decrease in intensity and broadeni	2019	6	27	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Electron Transport; Histidine; Kinetics; Leucine; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Zabelin	A A
31216720	10.3390/life9020051	Emergence of a "Cyclosome" in a Primitive Network Capable of Building "Infinite" Proteins.	We argue for the existence of an RNA sequence, called the AL (for ALpha) sequence, which may have played a role at the origin of life; this role entailed the AL sequence helping generate the first peptide assemblies via a primitive network. These peptide assemblies included "infinite" proteins. The AL sequence was constructed on an economy principle as the smallest RNA ring having one representative of each codon's synonymy class and capable of adopting a non-functional but nevertheless evolutionarily stable hairpin form that resisted denaturation due to environmental changes in pH, hydration, temperature, etc. Long subsequences from the AL ring resemble sequences from tRNAs and 5S rRNAs of numerous species like the proteobacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Pentameric subsequences from the AL are present more frequently than expected in current genomes, in particular, in genes encoding some of the proteins associated with ribosomes like tRNA synthetases. Such relics may help exp	2020	9	29	Life (Basel)	Life (Basel, Switzerland)	cyclosome; primitive network; small acid-soluble proteins; stereochemical hypothesis; tRNA synthetases	Demongeot	Jacques
31187318	10.1007/s10295-019-02201-6	Characterization of heterotrophic growth and sesquiterpene production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides on a defined medium.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a metabolically versatile bacterium capable of producing terpenes natively. Surprisingly, terpene biosynthesis in this species has always been investigated in complex media, with unknown compounds possibly acting as carbon and nitrogen sources. Here, a defined medium was adapted for R. sphaeroides dark heterotrophic growth, and was used to investigate the conversion of different organic substrates into the reporter terpene amorphadiene. The amorphadiene synthase was cloned in R. sphaeroides, allowing its biosynthesis via the native 2-methyl-D-erythritol-4-phosphate (MEP) pathway and, additionally, via a heterologous mevalonate one. The latter condition increased titers up to eightfold. Consequently, better yields and productivities to previously reported complex media cultivations were achieved. Productivity was further investigated under different cultivation conditions, including nitrogen and oxygen availability. This novel cultivation setup provided useful	2019	12	9	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Amorphadiene; MEP; Mevalonate; PHB; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Carbon; Erythritol; Heterotrophic Processes; Nitrogen; Polycyclic Sesquiterpenes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sugar Phosphates	Orsi	Enrico
31182483	10.1074/jbc.RA119.008381	Crystal structure of bacterial cytochrome <i>bc</i> <sub>1</sub> in complex with azoxystrobin reveals a conformational switch of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein subunit.	Cytochrome bc 1 complexes (cyt bc 1), also known as complex III in mitochondria, are components of the cellular respiratory chain and of the photosynthetic apparatus of non-oxygenic photosynthetic bacteria. They catalyze electron transfer (ET) from ubiquinol to cytochrome c and concomitantly translocate protons across the membrane, contributing to the cross-membrane potential essential for a myriad of cellular activities. This ET-coupled proton translocation reaction requires a gating mechanism that ensures bifurcated electron flow. Here, we report the observation of the Rieske iron-sulfur protein (ISP) in a mobile state, as revealed by the crystal structure of cyt bc 1 from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides in complex with the fungicide azoxystrobin. Unlike cyt bc 1 inhibitors stigmatellin and famoxadone that immobilize the ISP, azoxystrobin causes the ISP-ED to separate from the c	2020	3	16	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	X-ray crystallography; conformation switch; conformational change; cytochrome; cytochrome bc1; electron transfer; electron transfer mechanism; respiratory chain; respiratory inhibitors; Bacterial Proteins; Crystallography, X-Ray; Disulfides; Electron Transport Complex III; Mutagenesis; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Subunits; Pyrimidines; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Strobilurins	Esser	Lothar
31159416	10.3390/ijms20112701	Chemotaxis Towards Aromatic Compounds: Insights from <i>Comamonas testosteroni</i>.	Chemotaxis is an important physiological adaptation that allows many motile bacteria to orientate themselves for better niche adaptation. Chemotaxis is best understood in Escherichia coli. Other representative bacteria, such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Pseudomonas species, Helicobacter pylori, and Bacillus subtilis, also have been deeply studied and systemically summarized. These bacteria belong to ..-, ..-, ..-Proteobacteria, or Firmicutes. However, ..-Proteobacteria, of which many members have been identified as holding chemotactic pathways, lack a summary of chemotaxis. Comamonas testosteroni, belonging to ..-Proteobacteria, grows with and chemotactically responds to a range of aromatic compounds. This paper summarizes the latest research on chemotaxis towards aromatic compounds, mainly from investigations of C. testosteroni and other Comamonas species.	2019	11	20	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Comamonas testosteroni; aromatic compounds; chemoreceptor; chemotaxis; Bacterial Proteins; Chemotaxis; Comamonas testosteroni; Computational Biology; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; Gram-Negative Bacterial Infections; Humans; Hydrocarbons, Aromatic; Signal Transduction	Wang	Yun-Hao
31151455	10.1186/s12934-019-1145-6	Co-production of farnesol and coenzyme Q<sub>10</sub> from metabolically engineered Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Farnesol is an acyclic sesquiterpene alcohol present in the essential oils of various plants in nature. It has been reported to be valuable in medical applications, such as alleviation of allergic asthma, gliosis, and edema as well as anti-cancerous and anti-inflammatory effects. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), an essential cofactor in the aerobic respiratory electron transport chain, has attracted growing interest owing to its clinical benefits and important applications in the pharmaceutical, food, and health industries. In this work, co-production of (E,E)-farnesol (FOH) and CoQ10 was achieved by combining 3 different exogenous terpenes or sesquiterpene synthase with the RNA interference of psy (responsible for phytoene synthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides GY-2). FOH production was significantly increased by overexpressing exogenous terpene synthase (TPS), phosphatidylglycerophosphatase B (PgpB), and sesquiterpene synthase (ATPS), as well as RNAi-mediated silencing of psy coding phytoene synt	2019	9	30	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Carbon..flux; CoQ10; Farnesol; PSY; RNAi; Alkyl and Aryl Transferases; Biosynthetic Pathways; Carotenoids; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Farnesol; Geranylgeranyl-Diphosphate Geranylgeranyltransferase; Metabolic Engineering; Phosphatidate Phosphatase; RNA Interference; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Chen	Xueduan
31111523	10.1111/mmi.14280	Shedding light on a Group IV (ECF11) alternative .. factor.	This year marks the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the discovery of ..<sup>70</sup> as a protein factor that was needed for bacterial RNA polymerase to accurately transcribe a promoter in vitro. It was 25..years later that the Group IV alternative ..s were described as a distinct family of proteins related to ..<sup>70</sup> . In the intervening time, there has been an ever-growing list of Group IV ..s, numbers of genes they transcribe, insight into the diverse suite of processes they control, and appreciation for their impact on bacterial lifestyles. This work summarizes knowledge of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides ..<sup>E</sup> -ChrR pair, a member of the ECF11 subfamily of Group IV alternative ..s, in protecting cells from the reactive oxygen species, singlet oxygen. It describes lessons learned from analyzing ChrR, a zinc-dependent anti-.. factor, that are generally applicable to Group IV ..s and relevant to the response to single oxygen. This MicroReview also illustrates insights int	2020	5	11	Mol Microbiol	Molecular microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Zinc	Donohue	Timothy J
31097350	10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.04.097	Novel adjuvants derived from attenuated lipopolysaccharides and lipid As of purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria.	Adjuvants are substances that enhance adaptive immune response to antigen. Development of a safe and effective immunostimulant adjuvant is essential for the efficacy of a vaccine to protect against infectious pathogens. Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria exhibited nontoxic natural lipid A variants that are distinct in their chemical structures from that of the Escherichia coli-type lipid A. In this study, the adjuvant efficacy of attenuated lipid A variants and their corresponding lipopolysaccharides (LPSs), derived from purple photosynthetic bacteria (Rhodocyclus tenuis and Rhodobacter sphaeroides) were evaluated. LPS was extracted using modified phenol-chloroform-petroleum ether method and lipid A was separated by mild acid hydrolysis. Trinitrophenol (TNP) was conjugated to hen egg albumin (TNP-HEA) and used as haptenic antigen. The LPS and lipid A adjuvant candidates were formulated in oil-in-water emulsion (OIWE) and evaluated to elicit anti-TNP IgG against TNP-HEA conjugate	2020	9	8	Vaccine	Vaccine	Adjuvant; LPS; Lipid A; Oil-in-water emulsion; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodocyclus tenuis; Adjuvants, Immunologic; Albumins; Animals; Antibodies; Chickens; Female; Immunoglobulin G; Lipid A; Lipopolysaccharides; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodocyclaceae; Vaccines, Attenuated	Masoud	Hussein
31072330	10.1186/s12864-019-5749-3	Comparative analyses of the variation of the transcriptome and proteome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides throughout growth.	In natural environments, bacteria must frequently cope with extremely scarce nutrients. Most studies focus on bacterial growth in nutrient replete conditions, while less is known about the stationary phase. Here, we are interested in global gene expression throughout all growth phases, including the adjustment to deep stationary phase. We monitored both the transcriptome and the proteome in cultures of the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, beginning with the transition to stationary phase and at different points of the stationary phase and finally during exit from stationary phase (outgrowth) following dilution with fresh medium. Correlation between the transcriptomic and proteomic changes was very low throughout the growth phases. Surprisingly, even in deep stationary phase, the abundance of many proteins continued to adjust, while the transcriptome analysis revealed fewer adjustments. This pattern was reversed during the first 90...min of outgrowth, although this depended	2019	9	12	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Bacterial Proteins; Genetic Variation; Proteome; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptome	Bathke	Jochen
31009511	10.1371/journal.ppat.1007625	Dengue virus nonstructural protein 1 activates platelets via Toll-like receptor 4, leading to thrombocytopenia and hemorrhage.	Dengue virus (DENV) infection, the most common mosquito-transmitted viral infection, can cause a range of diseases from self-limiting dengue fever to life-threatening dengue hemorrhagic fever and shock syndrome. Thrombocytopenia is a major characteristic observed in both mild and severe dengue disease and is significantly correlated with the progression of dengue severity. Previous studies have shown that DENV nonstructural protein 1 (NS1), which can be secreted into patients' blood, can stimulate immune cells via Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and can cause endothelial leakage. However, it is unclear whether DENV NS1 can directly induce platelet activation or cause thrombocytopenia during DENV infection. In this study, we first demonstrated that DENV but not Zika virus cell culture supernatant could induce P-selectin expression and phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure in human platelets, both of which were abolished when NS1 was depleted from the DENV supernatant. Similar results were found 	2019	10	18	PLoS Pathog	PLoS pathogens	Animals; Blood Platelets; Cells, Cultured; Dengue; Dengue Virus; Hemorrhage; Humans; Lipopolysaccharides; Macrophages; Mice; Mice, Inbred C3H; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Phagocytosis; Thrombocytopenia; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Viral Nonstructural Proteins	Chao	Chiao-Hsuan
31003761	10.1016/j.bpj.2019.03.029	Dynamics Properties of Photosynthetic Microorganisms Probed by Incoherent Neutron Scattering.	Studies on the dynamical properties of photosynthetic membranes of land plants and purple bacteria have been previously performed by neutron spectroscopy, revealing a tight coupling between specific photochemical reactions and macromolecular dynamics. Here, we probed the intrinsic dynamics of biotechnologically useful mutants of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii by incoherent neutron scattering coupled with prompt chlorophyll fluorescence experiments. We brought to light that single amino acid replacements in the plastoquinone (PQ)-binding niche of the photosystem II D1 protein impair electron transport (ET) efficiency between quinones and confer increased flexibility to the host membranes, expanding to the entire cells. Hence, a more flexible environment in the PQ-binding niche has been associated to a less efficient ET. A similar function/dynamics relationship was also demonstrated in Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers having inhibited ET, indicating that flexibility at 	2020	6	10	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii; Kinetics; Mutation; Neutron Diffraction; Photosynthesis; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Plastoquinone	Russo	Daniela
30808422	10.1186/s12934-019-1088-y	Disruption of poly (3-hydroxyalkanoate) depolymerase gene and overexpression of three poly (3-hydroxybutyrate) biosynthetic genes improve poly (3-hydroxybutyrate) production from nitrogen rich medium by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Due to various environmental problems, biodegradable polymers such as poly..(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) have gained much attention in recent years. Purple non-sulfur (PNS) bacteria have various attractive characteristics useful for environmentally harmless PHB production. However, production of PHB by PNS bacteria using genetic engineering has never been reported. This study is the first report of a genetically engineered PNS bacterial strain with a high PHB production. We constructed a poly..(3-hydroxyalkanoate) depolymerase (phaZ) gene-disrupted Rhodobacter sphaeroides HJ strain. This R. sphaeroides HJ..phaZ (pLP-1.2) strain showed about 2.9-fold higher volumetric PHB production than that of the parent HJ (pLP-1.2) strain after 5..days of culture. The HJ..phaZ strain was further improved for PHB production by constructing strains overexpressing each of the eight genes including those newly found and annotated as PHB biosynthesis genes in the KEGG GENES Database. Among these constructed	2019	4	29	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Acetoacetyl-CoA reductase; Acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase; Poly..(3-hydroxyalkanoate) depolymerase; Poly..(3-hydroxyalkanoate) polymerase; Poly..(3-hydroxyalkanoates); Poly..(3-hydroxybutyrate); Rhodobacter sphaeroides; 3-Hydroxybutyric Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Carboxylic Ester Hydrolases; Genetic Engineering; Nitrogen; Polymers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kobayashi	Jyumpei
30804346	10.1038/s41467-019-08751-8	Both electronic and vibrational coherences are involved in primary electron transfer in bacterial reaction center.	Understanding the mechanism behind the near-unity efficiency of primary electron transfer in reaction centers is essential for designing performance-enhanced artificial solar conversion systems to fulfill mankind's growing demands for energy. One of the most important challenges is distinguishing electronic and vibrational coherence and establishing their respective roles during charge separation. In this work we apply two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy to three structurally-modified reaction centers from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides with different primary electron transfer rates. By comparing dynamics and quantum beats, we reveal that an electronic coherence with dephasing lifetime of ~190...fs connects the initial excited state, P*, and the charge-transfer intermediate [Formula: see text]; this [Formula: see text] step is associated with a long-lived quasi-resonant vibrational coherence; and another vibrational coherence is associated with stabilizing the primary	2019	4	17	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Vibration	Ma	Fei
30796237	10.1038/s41467-019-08817-7	Photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides exhibits prolonged charge storage.	Photosynthetic proteins have been extensively researched for solar energy harvesting. Though the light-harvesting and charge-separation functions of these proteins have been studied in depth, their potential as charge storage systems has not been investigated to the best of our knowledge. Here, we report prolonged storage of electrical charge in multilayers of photoproteins isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Direct evidence for charge build-up within protein multilayers upon photoexcitation and external injection is obtained by Kelvin-probe and scanning-capacitance microscopies. Use of these proteins is key to realizing a 'self-charging biophotonic device' that not only harvests light and photo-generates charges but also stores them. In strong correlation with the microscopic evidence, the phenomenon of prolonged charge storage is also observed in primitive power cells constructed from the purple bacterial photoproteins. The proof-of-concept power cells generated a photovoltage as 	2019	4	3	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bioelectric Energy Sources; Electrochemistry; Electromagnetic Phenomena; Electron Transport; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Ravi	Sai Kishore
30782656	10.1128/mBio.02401-18	Cardiolipin Alters <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Cell Shape by Affecting Peptidoglycan Precursor Biosynthesis.	Cardiolipin (CL) is an anionic phospholipid that plays an important role in regulating protein biochemistry in bacteria and mitochondria. Deleting the CL synthase gene (..cls) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides depletes CL and decreases cell length by 20%. Using a chemical biology approach, we found that a CL deficiency does not impair the function of the cell wall elongasome in R. sphaeroides; instead, biosynthesis of the peptidoglycan (PG) precursor lipid II is decreased. Treating R. sphaeroides cells with fosfomycin and d-cycloserine inhibits lipid II biosynthesis and creates phenotypes in cell shape, PG composition, and spatial PG assembly that are strikingly similar to those seen with R. sphaeroides ..cls cells, suggesting that CL deficiency alters the elongation of R. sphaeroides cells by reducing lipid II biosynthesis. We found that MurG-a glycosyltransferase that performs the last step of lipid II biosynthesis-interacts with anionic phos	2019	3	25	mBio	mBio	MreB; MurG; cardiolipin; cell shape; peptidoglycan; Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Biosynthetic Pathways; Cardiolipins; Cell Wall; Gene Deletion; Membrane Proteins; N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transferases (Other Substituted Phosphate Groups); Uridine Diphosphate N-Acetylmuramic Acid	Lin	Ti-Yu
30739452	10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b11196	Picosecond Dynamical Response to a Pressure-Induced Break of the Tertiary Structure Hydrogen Bonds in a Membrane Chromoprotein.	We used elastic incoherent neutron scattering (EINS) to find out if structural changes accompanying local hydrogen bond rupture are also reflected in global dynamical response of the protein complex. Chromatophore membranes from LH2-only strains of the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, with spheroidenone or neurosporene as the major carotenoids, were subjected to high hydrostatic pressure at ambient temperature. Optical spectroscopy conducted at high pressure confirmed rupture of tertiary structure hydrogen bonds. In parallel, we used EINS to follow average motions of the hydrogen atoms in LH2, which reflect the flexibility of this complex. A decrease of the average atomic mean square displacements of hydrogen atoms was observed up to a pressure of 5 kbar in both carotenoid samples due to general stiffening of protein structures, while at higher pressures a slight increase of the displacements was detected in the neurosporene mutant LH2 sample only. These data show a co	2020	7	7	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Hydrogen Bonding; Hydrostatic Pressure; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Golub	Maksym
30721661	10.1016/j.bbabio.2019.01.009	A highly efficient heptamethine cyanine antenna for photosynthetic Reaction Center: From chemical design to ultrafast energy transfer investigation of the hybrid system.	The photosynthetic Reaction Center (RC) from the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has unique photoconversion capabilities, that can be exploited in assembly biohybrid devices for applications in solar energy conversion. Extending the absorption cross section of isolated RC through covalent functionalization with ad-hoc synthesized artificial antennas is a successful strategy to outperform the efficiency of the pristine photoenzyme under visible light excitation. Here we report a new heptamethine cyanine antenna that, upon covalent binding to RC, forms a biohybrid (hCyN7-RC) which, under white light excitation, has doubled photoconversion efficiency versus the bare photoenzyme. The artificial antenna hCyN7 successfully meets appropriate optical properties, i.e. peak position of absorption and emission maximum in the visible and NIR region respectively, large Stokes shift, and high fluorescence quantum yield, required for improving the efficiency of the biohybrid in the productio	2019	8	27	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Bioconjugation; Biophotovoltaic; Light harvesting antenna; Photocurrent; Photoenzyme; Photosynthetic bacteria; Solar energy conversion; Bacterial Proteins; Energy Transfer; Fluorescence; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	la Gatta	Simona
30709705	10.1016/j.jbiosc.2018.12.005	Mutagenesis of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using atmospheric and room temperature plasma treatment for efficient production of coenzyme Q10.	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) plays an important role in the human respiratory chain and is widely used as medicine and dietary supplement. To improve the fermentation efficiency of CoQ10, a modified version of atmospheric and room temperature plasma (ARTP) treatment was used to mutate Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Meanwhile, Vitamin K3, a structural analog of CoQ10, was used as an inhibitor for mutant selection. In the first round of screening in 24-well plates, three mutants were obtained, with the production of CoQ10..at 311..mg/L, 307..mg/L, and 309..mg/L, which were increased from the parent's production at 265..mg/L. Furthermore, a second round of mutation and screening was performed based on the mutant strain with the highest production in the first round, leading to the identification of a mutant AR01 with the production of CoQ10..at ...330..mg/L. Finally, 590..mg/L CoQ10 was obtained for AR01 after 100..h fermentation, which was ...25.5% higher than that of the original parent strain. It is	2019	7	17	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	24-Well plate; Atmospheric and room temperature plasma; Coenzyme Q10; Mutant; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Atmosphere; Fermentation; Mutagenesis; Mutation; Plasma Gases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Ubiquinone	Zou	Rong-Song
30707885	10.1016/j.bbabio.2019.01.003	Tuning the redox properties of a [4Fe-4S] center to modulate the activity of Mo-bisPGD periplasmic nitrate reductase.	Molybdoenzymes are ubiquitous in living organisms and catalyze, for most of them, oxidation-reduction reactions using a large range of substrates. Periplasmic nitrate reductase (NapAB) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides catalyzes the 2-electron reduction of nitrate into nitrite. Its active site is a Mo bis-(pyranopterin guanine dinucleotide), or Mo-bisPGD, found in most prokaryotic molybdoenzymes. A [4Fe-4S] cluster and two c-type hemes form an intramolecular electron transfer chain that deliver electrons to the active site. Lysine 56 is a highly conserved amino acid which connects, through hydrogen-bonds, the [4Fe-4S] center to one of the pyranopterin ligands of the Mo-cofactor. This residue was proposed to be involved in the intramolecular electron transfer, either defining an electron transfer pathway between the two redox cofactors, and/or modulating their redox properties. In this work, we investigated the role of this lysine by combining site-directed mutagenesis, activity assays, redo	2019	8	27	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Biological electron transfer; EPR spectroscopy; Molybdenum-containing enzymes; Nitrate reductase; Site-directed mutagenesis; Amino Acid Substitution; Catalytic Domain; Electron Transport; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Mutation, Missense; Nitrate Reductase; Oxidation-Reduction; Periplasmic Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Zeamari	Kamal
30704481	10.1186/s12934-019-1070-8	Production of long-chain free fatty acids from metabolically engineered Rhodobacter sphaeroides heterologously producing periplasmic phospholipase A2 in dodecane-overlaid two-phase culture.	Long-chain free fatty acids (FFAs) are a type of backbone molecule that can react with alcohol to produce biodiesels. Various microorganisms have become potent producers of FFAs. Efforts have focused on increasing metabolic flux to the synthesis of either neutral fat or fatty acyl intermediates attached to acyl carrier protein (ACP), which are the source of FFAs. Membrane lipids are also a source of FFAs. As an alternative way of producing FFAs, exogenous phospholipase may be used after heterologous production and localization in the periplasmic space. In this work, we examined whether Rhodobacter sphaeroides, which forms an intracytoplasmic membrane, can be used for long-chain FFA production using phospholipase. The recombinant R. sphaeroides strain Rs-A2, which heterologously produces Arabidopsis thaliana phospholipase A2 (PLA2) in the periplasm, excretes FFAs during growth. FFA productivity under photoheterotrophic conditions is higher than that observed under aerobic or semiaerobic	2019	4	22	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Dodecane-overlaid two-phase culture; High-cell-density culture; Long-chain free fatty acids; Periplasmic expression; Phospholipase A2; Photoheterotrophic conditions; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Alkanes; Fatty Acids, Nonesterified; Membrane Lipids; Metabolic Engineering; Periplasm; Phospholipases A2; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tong	Xiaomeng
30687844	10.1128/MRA.01648-18	Draft Genome Sequences of Four Rhodobacter sphaeroides Strains Isolated from a Marine Ecosystem.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an alphaproteobacterium found in freshwater and marine ecosystems. To better understand the metabolic diversity within this species, we isolated and sequenced four R. sphaeroides isolates obtained from Trunk River in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. Here, we report the draft genome sequences of R. sphaeroides AB24, AB25, AB27, and AB29.	2020	10	1	Microbiol Resour Announc	Microbiology resource announcements	NA	Guzman	Michael S
30668130	10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b11458	Local and Global Electric Field Asymmetry in Photosynthetic Reaction Centers.	The origin of unidirectional electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) has been widely discussed. Despite the high level of structural similarity between the two branches of pigments that participate in the initial electron transfer steps of photosynthesis, electron transfer only occurs along one branch. One possible explanation for this functional asymmetry is the differences in the electrostatic environment between the active and the inactive branches arising from the charges and dipoles of the organized protein structure. We present an analysis of electric fields in the RC of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides using the intrinsic carbonyl groups of the pigments as vibrational reporters whose vibrational frequency shifts can be converted into electric fields based on the vibrational Stark effect and also provide Stark effect data for plant pigments that can be used in future studies. The carbonyl stretches of the isolated pigments show pronounced Stark effe	2020	6	10	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Electricity; Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Structure, Quaternary; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Saggu	Miguel
30658251	10.1016/j.carres.2018.12.018	Structural analysis of a novel lipooligosaccharide (LOS) from Rhodobacter azotoformans.	Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are components of the Gram-negative bacterial cell surface that stimulate the host innate immune system through the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4-MD-2 complex. Rhodobacter sp. have been reported to produce LPS that lack endotoxic activity, and instead act as antagonists of other endotoxins. In this report, we focused on LPS, especially the lipooligosaccharide (LOS) fraction produced by Rhodobacter azotoformans that shows production of IL-8, but has an inverse correlation with IL-6 production. We analyzed their molecular structure by using mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and report a novel LOS consisting of a shorter glycan structure containing glucuronic acid but not heptoses. A novel glycan structure, Glc..(1.........4)GlcA..(1.........4)KDO..(2.........4)[Glc..(1.........5)]KDO..(2.........6)[4-phosphate]GlcN..(1.........6) GlcN..1-phosphate, was proposed using NMR methods. The structure was consistent with one obtained based on MS	2019	5	3	Carbohydr Res	Carbohydrate research	Glucuronic acid; Lipopolysaccharide (LPS); Mass spectrometry; NMR; Structure elucidation; Hydrazines; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydrolysis; Lipopolysaccharides; Rhodobacter	Kanie	Yoshimi
30611329	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2018.11.012	Corrigendum to "Whole-genome sequence of purple non-sulfur bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain MBTLJ-8 with improved CO<sub>2</sub> reduction capacity" [J Biotechnol 288./ (2018) 9-14].	NA	2019	11	20	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	NA	Park	Ju-Yong
30602584	10.1128/mBio.02515-18	<i>In Vivo</i> Imaging of the Segregation of the 2 Chromosomes and the Cell Division Proteins of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Reveals an Unexpected Role for MipZ.	Coordinating chromosome duplication and segregation with cell division is clearly critical for bacterial species with one chromosome. The precise choreography required is even more complex in species with more than one chromosome. The alpha subgroup of bacteria contains not only one of the best-studied bacterial species, Caulobacter crescentus, but also several species with more than one chromosome. Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an alphaproteobacterium with two chromosomes, but, unlike C. crescentus, it divides symmetrically rather than buds and lacks the complex CtrA-dependent control mechanism. By examining the Ori and Ter regions of both chromosomes and associated ParA and ParB proteins relative to cell division proteins FtsZ and MipZ, we have identified a different pattern of chromosome segregation and cell division. The pattern of chromosome duplication and segregation resembles that of Vibrio cholerae, not that of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, with du	2019	4	5	mBio	mBio	FtsZ; MipZ; Rhodobacter; cell division; chromosome organization; chromosome segregation; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Cycle Proteins; Cell Division; Chromosome Segregation; Chromosomes, Bacterial; Intravital Microscopy; Protein Transport; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dubarry	Nelly
30599133	10.1021/acs.jpclett.8b03223	Orientational Dynamics of Transition Dipoles and Exciton Relaxation in LH2 from Ultrafast Two-Dimensional Anisotropy.	Light-harvesting complexes in photosynthetic organisms display fast and efficient energy transfer dynamics, which depend critically on the electronic structure of the coupled chromophores within the complexes and their interactions with their environment. We present ultrafast anisotropy dynamics, resolved in both time and frequency, of the transmembrane light-harvesting complex LH2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in its native membrane environment using polarization-controlled two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy. Time-dependent anisotropy obtained from both experiment and modified Redfield simulation reveals an orientational preference for excited state absorption and an ultrafast equilibration within the B850 band in LH2. This ultrafast equilibration is favorable for subsequent energy transfer toward the reaction center. Our results also show a dynamic difference in excited state absorption anisotropy between the directly excited B850 population and the population that is initially e	2021	2	24	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	NA	Massey	Sara C
30559113	10.1128/JB.00752-18	Characterization of FlgP, an Essential Protein for Flagellar Assembly in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	The flagellar lipoprotein FlgP has been identified in several species of bacteria, and its absence provokes different phenotypes. In this study, we show that in the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a ..flgP mutant is unable to assemble the hook and the filament. In contrast, the membrane/supramembrane (MS) ring and the flagellar rod appear to be assembled. In the absence of FlgP a severe defect in the transition from rod to hook polymerization occurs. In agreement with this idea, we noticed a reduction in the amount of intracellular flagellin and the chemotactic protein CheY4, both encoded by genes dependent on ..<sup>28</sup> This suggests that in the absence of flgP the switch to export the anti-sigma factor, FlgM, does not occur. The presence of FlgP was detected by Western blot in samples of isolated wild-type filament basal bodies, indicating that FlgP is an integral part of the flagellar structure. In this regard, we show that FlgP interacts with	2019	10	15	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	FlgH; FlgJ; FlgP; L ring; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacterial flagellum; flagellar basal disk; outer membrane; rod-hook transition; Blotting, Western; Flagella; Flagellin; Gene Deletion; Lipoproteins; Protein Interaction Mapping; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	P..rez-Gonz..lez	Caleb
30455284	10.1128/JB.00556-18	Barriers to 3-Hydroxypropionate-Dependent Growth of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by Distinct Disruptions of the Ethylmalonyl Coenzyme A Pathway.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is able to use 3-hydroxypropionate as the sole carbon source through the reductive conversion of 3-hydroxypropionate to propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA). The ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway is not required in this process because a crotonyl-CoA carboxylase/reductase (Ccr)-negative mutant still grew with 3-hydroxypropionate. Much to our surprise, a mutant defective for another specific enzyme of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway, mesaconyl-CoA hydratase (Mch), lost its ability for 3-hydroxypropionate-dependent growth. Interestingly, the Mch-deficient mutant was rescued either by introducing an additional ccr in-frame deletion that resulted in the blockage of an earlier step in the pathway or by heterologously expressing a gene encoding a thioesterase (YciA) that can act on several CoA intermediates of the ethylmalonyl-CoA pathway. The mch mutant expressing yciA metabolized only less than half of the 3-hydroxypropionate supplied, and over 50% o	2019	10	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; carbon balance; ethylmalonyl-CoA; mesaconate; redox balance; Acyl Coenzyme A; Carbon; Gene Deletion; Lactic Acid; Metabolic Flux Analysis; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Carlson	Steven J
30413472	10.1128/AEM.01873-18	Introduction of Glyoxylate Bypass Increases Hydrogen Gas Yield from Acetate and l-Glutamate in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides produces hydrogen gas (H2) from organic compounds via nitrogenase under anaerobic-light conditions in the presence of poor nitrogen sources, such as l-glutamate. R. sphaeroides utilizes the ethylmalonyl-coenzyme A (EMC) pathway for acetate assimilation, but its H2 yield from acetate in the presence of l-glutamate has been reported to be low. In this study, the deletion of ccr encoding crotonyl-coenzyme A (crotonyl-CoA) carboxylase/reductase, a key enzyme for the EMC pathway in R. sphaeroides, revealed that the EMC pathway is essential for H2 production from acetate and l-glutamate but not for growth and acetate consumption in the presence of l-glutamate. We introduced a plasmid expressing aceBA from Rhodobacter capsulatus encoding two key enzymes for the glyoxylate bypass into R. sphaeroides, which resulted in a 64% increase in H2 production. However, compared with the w	2020	1	21	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; acetate; ethylmalonyl-CoA; glyoxylate; hydrogen production; nitrogenase; polyhydroxyalkanoate synthesis; Acetates; Acyl Coenzyme A; Glutamic Acid; Glyoxylates; Hydrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shimizu	Tetsu
33335727	10.3892/br.2020.1397	TLR4/MD-2 is a receptor for extracellular nucleophosmin 1.	Nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) primarily localizes to the nucleus and is passively released into the extracellular milieu by necrotic or damaged cells, or is secreted by monocytes and macrophages. Extracellular NPM1 acts as a potent inflammatory stimulator by promoting cytokine production [e.g., tumor necrosis factor-.. (TNF-..)], which suggests that NPM1 acts as a damage-associated molecular pattern. However, the receptor of NPM1 is unknown. Evidence indicates that DAMPs, which include high mobility group box 1 and histones, may bind Toll-like receptors (TLRs). In the present study, it was shown that NPM1 signaling was mediated via the TLR4 pathway, which suggests that TLR4 is an NPM1 receptor. TLR4 binds myeloid differentiation protein-2 (MD-2), which is essential for intracellular signaling. Furthermore, the TLR4 antagonist, LPS-Rhodobacter sphaeroides (an MD-2 antagonist) and TAK-242 (a TLR4 signaling inhibitor) significantly inhibited NPM1-induced TNF-.. production by differentiate	2020	12	19	Biomed Rep	Biomedical reports	Toll-like receptor 4; damage-associated molecular patterns; myeloid differentiation protein-2; nucleophosmin 1; sepsis	Nakatomi	Kota
33333714	10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.10.051	Recognition of double-stranded DNA by the Rhodobacter sphaeroides Argonaute protein.	In contrast to eukaryotic Argonaute proteins that act on RNA targets, prokaryotic Argonautes (pAgos) can target DNA, using either small RNA or small DNA guides for its recognition. Since pAgos can recognize only a single strand of DNA and lack a helicase activity, it remains unknown how double-stranded DNA can be bound both in..vitro and in..vivo. Here, using in..vitro reconstitution and footprinting assays we analyze formation of specific complexes with target DNA by a catalytically inactive pAgo, RsAgo from Rhodobacter sphaeroides programmed with small guide RNAs. We showed that RsAgo can recognize a specific site in double-stranded DNA after stepwise reconstitution of the complex from individual oligonucleotides or after prior melting of the DNA target. When bound, RsAgo stabilizes an open DNA bubble corresponding to the length of the guide molecule and protects the target DNA from nuclease cleavage. The results suggest that RsAgo and, possibly, other RNA-guided pAgos cannot directl	2021	3	22	Biochem Biophys Res Commun	Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Argonaute proteins; DNA targeting; Small DNA; Small RNA; pAgo; Argonaute Proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; DNA; Models, Molecular; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Nucleic Acid Denaturation; Protein Binding; RNA, Guide; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lisitskaya	Lidia
33302206	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.129151	Improving microbial bioremediation efficiency of intensive aquacultural wastewater based on bacterial pollutant metabolism kinetics analysis.	How to effectively bioremediate aquacultural wastewater using microbes is an urgent issue for the application of aquaculture beneficial microorganisms. Purple non-sulfur bacteria (PNSB) are beneficial in preventing related pollution in aquaculture applications. An autochthonous PNSB Rhodobacter sphaeroides was employed in this study to explore an effective bioremediation strategy of aquacultural wastewater. The test bacterium showed high performance in the removal of ammonium (97.50%......0.78% of 42..mg..L<sup>-1</sup> NH4<sup>+</sup>-N) and phosphate (93.24%......0.71% of 50..mg..L<sup>-1</sup> PO4<sup>3-</sup>-P) in the synthetic wastewater, which are the two crucial indicators of the aquacultural wastewater bioremediation. The study also unveiled that the imbalanced ratio of nutrients in water was the principal reason for limiting the efficient bioremediation of shrimp-culture wastewater. Therefore, an effective microbial bioremediation strategy was proposed b	2021	1	1	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Aquaculture wastewater; Bacterial pollutant metabolism kinetics; Bioremediation efficiency; Microbial bioremediation; R...sphaeroides; Aquaculture; Bacteria; Biodegradation, Environmental; Biological Oxygen Demand Analysis; Environmental Pollutants; Kinetics; Nitrogen; Phosphorus; Waste Disposal, Fluid; Waste Water	Dong	Die
33236901	10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c08714	Insight into Electron Transfer from a Redox Polymer to a Photoactive Protein.	Biohybrid photoelectrochemical systems in photovoltaic or biosensor applications have gained considerable attention in recent years. While the photoactive proteins engaged in such systems usually maintain an internal charge separation quantum yield of nearly 100%, the subsequent steps of electron and hole transfer beyond the protein often limit the overall system efficiency and their kinetics remain largely uncharacterized. To reveal the dynamics of one of such charge-transfer reactions, we report on the reduction of Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers (RCs) by Os-complex-modified redox polymers (P-Os) characterized using transient absorption spectroscopy. RCs and P-Os were mixed in buffered solution in different molar ratios in the presence of a water-soluble quinone as an electron acceptor. Electron transfer from P-Os to the photoexcited RCs could be described by a three-exponential function, the fastest lifetime of which was on the order of a few microseconds, which is a	2021	5	14	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Electrons; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Polymers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Bia..ek	Rafa..
33233554	10.3390/ijms21228773	Responses of DNA Mismatch Repair Proteins to a Stable G-Quadruplex Embedded into a DNA Duplex Structure.	DNA mismatch repair (MMR) plays a crucial role in the maintenance of genomic stability. The main MMR protein, MutS, was recently shown to recognize the G-quadruplex (G4) DNA structures, which, along with regulatory functions, have a negative impact on genome integrity. Here, we studied the effect of G4 on the DNA-binding activity of MutS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (methyl-independent MMR) in comparison with MutS from Escherichia coli (methyl-directed MMR) and evaluated the influence of a G4 on the functioning of other proteins involved in the initial steps of MMR. For this purpose, a new DNA construct was designed containing a biologically relevant intramolecular stable G4 structure flanked by double-stranded regions with the set of DNA sites required for MMR initiation. The secondary structure of this model was examined using NMR spectroscopy, chemical probing, fluorescent indicators, circular dichroism, and UV spectroscopy. The results unambiguously showed that the d(	2021	3	8	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	DNA mismatch repair; G-quadruplex; MutH; MutL; MutS; protein...DNA binding; Binding Sites; DNA Breaks, Double-Stranded; DNA Mismatch Repair; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; G-Quadruplexes; Genome, Bacterial; MutL Proteins; MutS DNA Mismatch-Binding Protein; Nucleotide Motifs; Protein Binding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Pavlova	Anzhela V
33209319	10.1107/S2052252520012142	Novel approaches for the lipid sponge phase crystallization of the <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> photosynthetic reaction center.	With the recent developments in the field of free-electron-laser-based serial femtosecond crystallography, the necessity to obtain a large number of high-quality crystals has emerged. In this work crystallization techniques were selected, tested and optimized for the lipid mesophase crystallization of the Rhodobacter sphaeroides membrane pigment-protein complex, known as the photosynthetic reaction center (RC). Novel approaches for lipid sponge phase crystallization in comparatively large volumes using Hamilton gas-tight glass syringes and plastic pipetting tips are described. An analysis of RC crystal structures obtained by lipid mesophase crystallization revealed non-native ligands that displaced the native electron-transfer cofactors (carotenoid sphero-idene and a ubi-quinone molecule) from their binding pockets. These ligands were identified and were found to be lipids that are major mesophase components. The selection of distinct co-crystallization conditions with the missi	2020	11	20	IUCrJ	IUCrJ	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; lipid sponge phase; mesophase crystallization; monoolein; photosynthetic reaction centers; serial crystallography	Selikhanov	Georgii
33203354	10.1186/s12859-020-03788-9	Clover: a clustering-oriented de novo assembler for Illumina sequences.	Next-generation sequencing technologies revolutionized genomics by producing high-throughput reads at low cost, and this progress has prompted the recent development of de novo assemblers. Multiple assembly methods based on de Bruijn graph have been shown to be efficient for Illumina reads. However, the sequencing errors generated by the sequencer complicate analysis of de novo assembly and influence the quality of downstream genomic researches. In this paper, we develop a de Bruijn assembler, called Clover (clustering-oriented de novo assembler), that utilizes a novel k-mer clustering approach from the overlap-layout-consensus concept to deal with the sequencing errors generated by the Illumina platform. We further evaluate Clover's performance against several de Bruijn graph assemblers (ABySS, SOAPdenovo, SPAdes and Velvet), overlap-layout-consensus assemblers (Bambus2, CABOG and MSR-CA) and string graph assembler (SGA) on three datasets (Staphylococcus aureus, Rhodobacter sphaeroide	2020	12	11	BMC Bioinformatics	BMC bioinformatics	DNA sequencing; De bruijn graph; De novo genome assembly; Algorithms; Base Sequence; Chromosomes, Human, Pair 14; Cluster Analysis; Genome, Bacterial; Genomics; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Humans; Software; Time Factors	Hsieh	Ming-Feng
33168725	10.1073/pnas.2010087117	A majority of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> promoters lack a crucial RNA polymerase recognition feature, enabling coordinated transcription activation.	Using an in vitro transcription system with purified RNA polymerase (RNAP) to investigate rRNA synthesis in the photoheterotrophic ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, we identified a surprising feature of promoters recognized by the major holoenzyme. Transcription from R. sphaeroides rRNA promoters was unexpectedly weak, correlating with absence of -7T, the very highly conserved thymine found at the last position in -10 elements of promoters in most bacterial species. Thymine substitutions for adenine at position -7 in the three rRNA promoters strongly increased intrinsic promoter activity, indicating that R. sphaeroides RNAP can utilize -7T when present. rRNA promoters were activated by purified R. sphaeroides CarD, a transcription factor found in many bacterial species but not in ..- and ..-proteobacteria. Overall, CarD increased the activity of 15 of 16 native R. sphaeroides promoters tested in vitro that lacked -7T, whereas it had no effec	2021	1	11	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	CarD; RNA polymerase; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; promoter; ...10 element; Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic; Transcriptional Activation	Henry	Kemardo K
33160214	10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124333	Photoautotrophic hydrogen production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in a microbial electrosynthesis cell.	Conventional photoheterotrophic H2 production by purple sulfur bacteria requires additional organic substrates as the carbon and energy sources. This study examined the novel photoautotrophic H2 production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides with concomitant CO2 uptake in microbial electrosynthesis (MES). Under an applied potential of -0.9..V vs. Ag/AgCl to the cathode, Rhodobacter sphaeroides produced hydrogen with CO2 as the sole carbon source under illumination. The initial planktonic cells decreased rapidly in suspension, whereas biomass formation on the cathode surface increased gradually during MES operation. The electron and carbon flow under photoautotrophic conditions in MES were estimated. Glutamate, as the nitrogen source, enhanced hydrogen production significantly (328..mL/L/day) compared to NH4Cl (67..mL/L/day) during seven days of operation. The photoautotrophic condition with 6000..lx presented CO2 consumption and 	2020	12	15	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Bioelectrochemical system (BES); CO(2) fixation; Microbial electrosynthesis (MES); Photoautotrophic hydrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Carbon; Carbon Dioxide; Electrodes; Hydrogen; Nitrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Li	Shuwei
33125669	10.1007/s12275-020-0283-1	Similarities and differences between 6S RNAs from Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Sinorhizobium meliloti.	6S RNA, a conserved and abundant small non-coding RNA found in most bacteria, regulates gene expression by inhibiting RNA polymerase (RNAP) holoenzyme. 6S RNAs from ..-proteobacteria have been studied poorly so far. Here, we present a first in-depth analysis of 6S RNAs from two ..-proteobacteria species, Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Sinorhizobium meliloti. Although both belong to the order Rhizobiales and are typical nitrogen-fixing symbionts of legumes, their 6S RNA expression profiles were found to differ: B. japonicum 6S RNA accumulated in the stationary phase, thus being reminiscent of Escherichia coli 6S RNA, whereas S. meliloti 6S RNA level peaked at the transition to the stationary phase, similarly to Rhodobacter sphaeroides 6S RNA. We demonstrated in vitro that both RNAs have hallmarks of 6S RNAs: they bind to the ..<sup>70</sup>-type RNAP holoenzyme and serve as templates for de novo transcription of so-called product RNAs (pRNAs) ranging in length from ...13 to 24 nucleotides	2021	6	1	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	6S RNA; pRNA transcript; small non-coding RNA; transcription; Bradyrhizobium; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Nucleic Acid Conformation; Protein Binding; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Untranslated; Sinorhizobium meliloti; Transcription, Genetic	Burenina	Olga Y
33093750	10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.07.108	The adherence-associated Fdp fasciclin I domain protein of the biohydrogen producer <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> is regulated by the global Prr pathway.	Expression of fdp, encoding a fasciclin I domain protein important for adherence in the hydrogen-producing bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, was investigated under a range of conditions to gain insights into optimization of adherence for immobilization strategies suitable for H2 production. The fdp promoter was linked to a lacZ reporter and expressed in wild type and in PRRB and PRRA mutant strains of the Prr regulatory pathway. Expression was significantly negatively regulated by Prr under all conditions of aerobiosis tested including anaerobic conditions (required for H2 production), and aerobically regardless of growth phase, growth medium complexity or composition, carbon source, heat and cold shock and dark/light conditions. Negative fdp regulation by Prr was reflected in cellular levels of translated Fdp protein. Since Prr is required directly for nitrogenase expression, we propose optimization of Fdp-based adherence in <i	2020	10	24	Int J Hydrogen Energy	International journal of hydrogen energy	Biohydrogen; Fasciclin domain; Gene regulation; Green energy; Prr two-component system; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jeong	E-L
33081813	10.1186/s12974-020-01995-y	Role of macrophage-mediated Toll-like receptor 4-interleukin-1R signaling in ectopic tongue pain associated with tooth pulp inflammation.	The existence of referred pain and ectopic paresthesia caused by tooth pulp inflammation may make definitive diagnosis difficult and cause misdiagnosis or mistreatment; thus, elucidation of that molecular mechanism is urgent. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms underlying ectopic pain, especially tongue hyperalgesia, after tooth pulp inflammation. A rat model with mandibular first molar tooth pulp exposure was employed. Tooth pulp exposure-induced heat and mechanical-evoked tongue hypersensitivity was measured, and immunohistochemical staining for Iba1, a marker of active macrophages, IL-1.., IL-1 type I receptor (IL-1R..), and toll-like receptor 4 in the trigeminal ganglion was performed. In addition, we investigated the effects of injections of liposomal clodronate Clophosome-A (LCCA), a selective macrophage depletion agent, lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS, a toll-like receptor 4 antagonist), IL-1.., or heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70, a selectiv	2021	8	19	J Neuroinflammation	Journal of neuroinflammation	Chemokine; Cytokine receptors; Ectopic tongue pain; Hyperalgesia; Intercellular signaling; Interleukin-1..; Toll-like receptors; Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1; Trigeminal ganglion; Animals; Dental Pulp; Macrophages; Male; Pain; Pain Measurement; Pulpitis; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Receptors, Interleukin-1 Type I; Signal Transduction; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Tongue	Kanno	Kohei
33064275	10.1007/s11120-020-00789-w	Interplay between formation of photosynthetic complexes and expression of genes for iron-sulfur cluster assembly in Rhodobacter sphaeroides?	Formation of photosynthetic complexes leads to a higher demand for Fe-S clusters. We hypothesized that in the facultative phototrophic alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides expression of the isc-suf operon for Fe-S cluster formation may be increased under conditions that promote formation of photosynthetic complexes and that, vice versa, lack of the IscR regulator may also affect photosynthesis gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we monitored the activities of the isc-suf sense and anti-sense promoters under different growth conditions and in mutants which are impaired in formation of photosynthetic complexes. We also tested expression of photosynthesis genes in a mutant lacking the IscR regulator. Our results are not in agreement with a co-regulation of the Isc-Suf system and the photosynthetic apparatus at level of transcription. We provide evidence that, coordination of the systems occurs at post-transcriptional levels. Increased levels of isc-suf mRNAs under condition	2021	9	1	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial photosynthesis; Gene regulation; Iron...sulfur cluster assembly; Isc-suf operon; Promoter activities; Bacterial Proteins; Iron; Iron-Sulfur Proteins; Operon; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sulfur	Nie	Xin
33040182	10.1007/s00203-020-02055-y	Characterization of a Rhodobacter sphaeroides primary fatty acid kinase.	Widely distributed among prokaryotes, short chain fatty acid kinases provide a path for fatty acid entry into central metabolic pathways. These enzymes catalyze the reversible, ATP-dependent synthesis of acyl-phosphates, which leads to the production of acyl-CoA derivatives by a coordinate acyltransferase. To date, characterized representatives of short chain fatty acid kinases exhibit relatively narrow substrate specificity. In this work, biochemical characterization of a predicted acetate kinase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reveals a novel enzyme with broad substrate specificity for primary fatty acids of varying lengths (C2--C8).	2021	3	4	Arch Microbiol	Archives of microbiology	ASKHA; Acetate kinase; Polyhydroxybutyrate; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Acetate Kinase; Acyl Coenzyme A; Acyltransferases; Fatty Acids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Bachochin	Maxwell J
33038009	10.1002/bit.27593	The transition of Rhodobacter sphaeroides into a microbial cell factory.	Microbial cell factories are the workhorses of industrial biotechnology and improving their performances can significantly optimize industrial bioprocesses. Microbial strain engineering is often employed for increasing the competitiveness of bio-based product synthesis over more classical petroleum-based synthesis. Recently, efforts for strain optimization have been standardized within the iterative concept of "design-build-test-learn" (DBTL). This approach has been successfully employed for the improvement of traditional cell factories like Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Within the past decade, several new-to-industry microorganisms have been investigated as novel cell factories, including the versatile ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Despite its history as a laboratory strain for fundamental studies, there is a growing interest in this bacterium for its ability to synthesize relevant compounds for the bioeconomy, such as isoprenoids, poly-..-hydroxybutyrat	2021	11	25	Biotechnol Bioeng	Biotechnology and bioengineering	DBTL cycles; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; industrial biotechnology; metabolic engineering; microbial cell factory; strain engineering; synthetic biology; Biotechnology; Hydroxybutyrates; Metabolic Engineering; Polyesters; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Terpenes	Orsi	Enrico
32989135	10.1073/pnas.2011641117	The dependency of red Rubisco on its cognate activase for enhancing plant photosynthesis and growth.	Plant photosynthesis and growth are often limited by the activity of the CO2-fixing enzyme Rubisco. The broad kinetic diversity of Rubisco in nature is accompanied by differences in the composition and compatibility of the ancillary proteins needed for its folding, assembly, and metabolic regulation. Variations in the protein folding needs of catalytically efficient red algae Rubisco prevent their production in plants. Here, we show this impediment does not extend to Rubisco from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsRubisco)-a red-type Rubisco able to assemble in plant chloroplasts. In transplastomic tobRsLS lines expressing a codon optimized Rs-rbcLS operon, the messenger RNA (mRNA) abundance was ...25% of rbcL transcript and RsRubisco ...40% the Rubisco content in WT tobacco. To mitigate the low activation status of RsRubisco in tobRsLS (...23% sites active under ambient CO2), the metabolic repair prote	2020	12	23	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Rubisco activase; carbon fixation; chloroplast transformation; photosynthesis; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Dioxide; Chloroplasts; Gene Expression; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Plants, Genetically Modified; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase; Tobacco	Gunn	Laura H
32939611	10.1007/s10787-020-00756-w	Antinociception induced by artemisinin nanocapsule in a model of postoperative pain via spinal TLR4 inhibition.	Artemisinin (ART) was initially described for the control of inflammation and pain. However, the mechanisms involved with its antinociceptive effect are still poorly understood. Thus, this present study aimed to investigate the effect of ART in both free and nanocapsulated form on postoperative pain, as well as the participation of the spinal Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in this process. Postoperative pain was induced using the skin/muscle incision retraction (SMIR) model in male Swiss mice. After 3 and 28..days of SMIR, the animals received an intrathecal injection of free or nanocapsulated ART, and the nociceptive threshold was evaluated by von Frey filament test. To evaluate the involvement of the microglia, astrocytes, and TLR4, minocycline (a microglia inhibitor), fluorocitrate (an astrocyte inhibitor), and Lipopolysaccharide Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS), a TLR4 antagonist, were intrathecally injected on the third day of SMIR. The levels of spinal TLR4 protein and proinflammato	2021	7	13	Inflammopharmacology	Inflammopharmacology	Artemisinin; Postoperative pain; Proinflammatory cytokines; Spinal cord; Toll-like receptor 4; Analgesics; Animals; Artemisinins; Cytokines; Hyperalgesia; Male; Mice; Microglia; Nanocapsules; Pain, Postoperative; Spinal Cord; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Up-Regulation	Elisei	L M S
32926863	10.1016/j.bbabio.2020.148307	Quinone transport in the closed light-harvesting 1 reaction center complex from the thermophilic purple bacterium Thermochromatium tepidum.	Redox-active quinones play essential roles in efficient light energy conversion in type-II reaction centers of purple phototrophic bacteria. In the light-harvesting 1 reaction center (LH1-RC) complex of purple bacteria, QB is converted to QBH2 upon light-induced reduction and QBH2 is transported to the quinone pool in the membrane through the LH1 ring. In the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the C-shaped LH1 ring contains a gap for quinone transport. In contrast, the thermophilic purple bacterium Thermochromatium (Tch.) tepidum has a closed O-shaped LH1 ring that lacks a gap, and hence the mechanism of photosynthetic quinone transport is unclear. Here we detected light-induced Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) signals responsible for changes of QB and its binding site that accompany photosynthetic quinone reduction in Tch. tepidum and characterized QB and QBH2 marker bands based 	2021	4	13	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Light-harvesting 1 reaction center; Light-induced FTIR spectroscopy; Purple photosynthetic bacteria; Quinone transport; Thermochromatium tepidum; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Biological Transport, Active; Chromatiaceae; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Ubiquinone	Kishi	Rikako
32883797	10.1128/MRA.00880-20	Genome-Wide Identification of Transcription Start Sites in Two <i>Alphaproteobacteria</i>, Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 and Novosphingobium aromaticivorans DSM 12444.	Here, we report the genome-wide identification of transcription start sites (TSSs) from two Alphaproteobacteria grown under conditions that result in significant changes in gene expression. TSSs that were identified as present in one condition or both will be an important resource for future studies of these, and possibly other, Alphaproteobacteria.	2020	9	28	Microbiol Resour Announc	Microbiology resource announcements	NA	Myers	Kevin S
32883115	10.1080/10409238.2020.1810623	Control of electron transfer by protein dynamics in photosynthetic reaction centers.	Trehalose and glycerol are low molecular mass sugars/polyols that have found widespread use in the protection of native protein states, in both short- and long-term storage of biological materials, and as a means of understanding protein dynamics. These myriad uses are often attributed to their ability to form an amorphous glassy matrix. In glycerol, the glass is formed only at cryogenic temperatures, while in trehalose, the glass is formed at room temperature, but only upon dehydration of the sample. While much work has been carried out to elucidate a mechanistic view of how each of these matrices interact with proteins to provide stability, rarely have the effects of these two independent systems been directly compared to each other. This review aims to compile decades of research on how different glassy matrices affect two types of photosynthetic proteins: (i) the Type II bacterial reaction center from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and (ii) the Type I Photosystem I reaction center 	2021	3	9	Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol	Critical reviews in biochemistry and molecular biology	Trehalose; bacterial reaction center; electron transfer; glycerol; photosystem I; protein dynamics; Bacterial Proteins; Cyanobacteria; Electrons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Trehalose	Gorka	Michael
32840065	10.1002/btpr.3071	Introducing a delivery system for melanogenesis inhibition in melanoma B16F10 cells mediated by the conjugation of tyrosine ammonia-lyase and a TAT-penetrating peptide.	Hyperpigmentation disorders negatively influence an individual's quality of life and may cause emotional distress. Over the years, various melanogenesis inhibitors (mainly tyrosinase inhibitors) have been developed, most of which with low efficacy or high toxicity. Although metabolic engineering by deviation in the flux of substrate is of considerable interest, trials to develop a melanogenesis inhibitor based on L-tyrosine (L-Tyr) restriction are missing. We propose a novel proteinaceous melanogenesis inhibitor called tyrosine ammonia-lyase (TAL), an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of L-Tyr to p-coumaric acid and ammonia. Since the cell membrane can act as a barrier for intracellular protein delivery, we have covalently conjugated a recombinant TAL enzyme from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsTAL) to a trans-activator of transcription (TAT) cell-penetrating peptide (CPP) to afford the intracellular delivery. The heterologously expressed TAT-RsTAL fusion protein was delivered successful	2022	1	28	Biotechnol Prog	Biotechnology progress	cell-penetrating peptide; melanin; metabolic engineering; protein delivery; tyrosine ammonia-lyase; Ammonia-Lyases; Animals; Cell Survival; Cell-Penetrating Peptides; Drug Delivery Systems; Gene Products, tat; Melanins; Melanocytes; Melanoma, Experimental; Mice; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tyrosine	Behzadipour	Yasaman
32814810	10.1038/s41598-020-70966-3	Correlated clusters of closed reaction centers during induction of intact cells of photosynthetic bacteria.	Antenna systems serve to absorb light and to transmit excitation energy to the reaction center (RC) in photosynthetic organisms. As the emitted (bacterio)chlorophyll fluorescence competes with the photochemical utilization of the excitation, the measured fluorescence yield is informed by the migration of the excitation in the antenna. In this work, the fluorescence yield concomitant with the oxidized dimer (P<sup>+</sup>) of the RC were measured during light excitation (induction) and relaxation (in the dark) for whole cells of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides lacking cytochrome c2 as natural electron donor to P<sup>+</sup> (mutant cycA). The relationship between the fluorescence yield and P<sup>+</sup> (fraction of closed RC) showed deviations from the standard Joliot-Lavergne-Trissl model: (1) the hyperbola is not symmetric and (2) exhibits hysteresis. These phenomena originate from the difference between the delays of fluorescence relative to P<sup>+</sup>	2021	1	12	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Electron Transport; Fluorescence; Kinetics; Light; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thermodynamics	Mar..ti	P..ter
32737200	10.1074/jbc.RA120.015151	Substrate recognition induces sequential electron transfer across subunits in the nitrogenase-like DPOR complex.	A key step in bacteriochlorophyll biosynthesis is the reduction of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide (Chlide), catalyzed by dark-operative protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (DPOR). DPOR is made of electron donor (BchL) and acceptor (BchNB) component proteins. BchNB is further composed of two subunits each of BchN and BchB arranged as an ..2..2 heterotetramer with two active sites for substrate reduction. Such oligomeric architectures are found in several other electron transfer (ET) complexes, but how this architecture influences activity is unclear. Here, we describe allosteric communication between the two identical active sites in Rhodobacter sphaeroides BchNB that drives sequential and asymmetric ET. Pchlide binding to one BchNB active site initiates ET from the pre-reduced [4Fe-4S] cluster of BchNB, a process similar to the deficit spending mechanism observed in the structurally related nitrogenase complex. Pchlide binding in one active 	2021	2	5	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	ATPase; DPOR; EPR; chlorophyll; cyanobacteria; electron paramagnetic resonance; electron transfer; metalloenzyme; nitrogenase; photosynthesis; protochlorophyllide; Electron Transport; Oxidoreductases Acting on CH-CH Group Donors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Substrate Specificity	Corless	Elliot I
32729541	10.1016/j.bios.2020.112423	Self-powered all weather sensory systems powered by Rhodobacter sphaeroides protein solar cells.	Natural photosynthetic proteins can convert solar energy into electrical energy with close to 100% quantum efficiency, and there is increasing interest in their use for sustainable photoelectrochemical devices. The primary processes of photosynthesis remain operational and efficient down to extremely low temperatures, and natural photosystems exhibit a variety of self-healing mechanisms. Herein we demonstrate the use of an amphiphilic triblock copolymer, Pluronic F127, to fabricate a self-healing photosynthetic protein photoelectrochemical cell that operates optimally at sub-zero temperatures. A concentration of 30% (w/w) Pluronic F127 depressed the freezing point of an electrolyte comprising 50..mM ubiquinone-0 in aqueous buffer such that optimal device solar energy conversion was seen at -12....C rather than at room temperature. Fabrication of the protein photoelectrochemical cells with flexible electrodes enabled the demonstration of self-healing of damage caused by repeated mechani	2021	5	14	Biosens Bioelectron	Biosensors &amp; bioelectronics	Amphiphilic triblock copolymer; Low temperature; Protein photoelectrochemical cells; Quasi-solid electrolyte; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Self-recovery; Biosensing Techniques; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy; Sunlight	Paul	Nikita
32684976	10.1186/s13068-020-01765-1	Growth-uncoupled isoprenoid synthesis in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Microbial cell factories are usually engineered and employed for cultivations that combine product synthesis with growth. Such a strategy inevitably invests part of the substrate pool towards the generation of biomass and cellular maintenance. Hence, engineering strains for the formation of a specific product under non-growth conditions would allow to reach higher product yields. In this respect, isoprenoid biosynthesis represents an extensively studied example of growth-coupled synthesis with rather unexplored potential for growth-independent production. Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a model bacterium for isoprenoid biosynthesis, either via the native 2-methyl-d-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway or the heterologous mevalonate (MVA) pathway, and for poly-..-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) biosynthesis. This study investigates the use of this bacterium for growth-independent production of isoprenoids, with amorpha-4,11-diene as reporter molecule. For this purpose, we employed the recently develop	2022	4	15	Biotechnol Biofuels	Biotechnology for biofuels	Growth-independent production; Isoprenoid biosynthesis; MEP; MVA; PHB; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Orsi	Enrico
32675180	10.1128/MRA.00414-20	Draft Genome Assembly of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 Substrain H2 from Nanopore Data.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a purple bacterium with complex genomic architecture. Here, a draft genome is reported for R. sphaeroides strain 2.4.1 substrain H2, which was generated exclusively from Nanopore sequencing data.	2020	9	28	Microbiol Resour Announc	Microbiology resource announcements	NA	Leidenfrost	Robert Maximilian
32674377	10.3390/antiox9070616	Reduction of Protein Bound Methionine Sulfoxide by a Periplasmic Dimethyl Sulfoxide Reductase.	In proteins, methionine (Met) can be oxidized into Met sulfoxide (MetO). The ubiquitous methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msr) A and B are thiol-oxidoreductases reducing MetO. Reversible Met oxidation has a wide range of consequences, from protection against oxidative stress to fine-tuned regulation of protein functions. Bacteria distinguish themselves by the production of molybdenum-containing enzymes reducing MetO, such as the periplasmic MsrP which protects proteins during acute oxidative stress. The versatile dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) reductases were shown to reduce the free amino acid MetO, but their ability to reduce MetO within proteins was never evaluated. Here, using model oxidized proteins and peptides, enzymatic and mass spectrometry approaches, we showed that the Rhodobacter sphaeroides periplasmic DorA-type DMSO reductase reduces protein bound MetO as efficiently as the free amino acid L-MetO and with catalytic values in the range of those described for the canonical	2020	9	28	Antioxidants (Basel)	Antioxidants (Basel, Switzerland)	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; dimethyl sulfoxide reductase; enzyme kinetics; methionine sulfoxide; oxidative stress; protein oxidation; protein quality control	Tarrago	Lionel
32673675	10.1016/j.bbabio.2020.148262	Cytochrome c oxidase oxygen reduction reaction induced by cytochrome c on nickel-coordination surfaces based on graphene oxide in suspension.	The electrochemical and spectroscopic investigation of bacterial electron-transfer proteins stabilized on solid state electrodes has provided an effective approach for functional respiratory enzyme studies. We assess the biocompatibility of carboxylated graphene oxide (CGO) functionalized with Nickel nitrilotriacetic groups (CGO-NiNTA) ccordinating His-tagged cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Kinetic studies employing UV-visible absorption spectroscopy confirmed that the immobilized CcO oxidized horse-heart cytochrome c (Cyt c) albeit at a slower rate than isolated CcO. The oxygen reduction reaction as catalyzed by immobilized CcO could be clearly distinguished from that arising from CGO-NiNTA in the presence of Cyt c and dithiothreitol (DTT) as a sacrificial reducing agent. Our findings indicate that while the protein content is about 3.7... by mass with respect to the support, the contribution to the oxygen consumption activity averaged at 56.3%. The CGO-based 	2020	12	14	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Electron transfer; Graphene oxide; Histidine-tagged cytochrome c oxidase; Nickel-coordination; Oxygen reduction reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Catalysis; Cytochromes c; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex IV; Graphite; Kinetics; Nickel; Oxidation-Reduction; Oxygen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Suspensions	Zhu	Xiaoping
32662473	10.1039/d0lc00156b	Excitation energy transfer between monomolecular layers of light harvesting LH2 and LH1-reaction centre complexes printed on a glass substrate.	Light-harvesting 2 (LH2) and light-harvesting 1 - reaction centre (RCLH1) complexes purified from the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides were cross-patterned on glass surfaces for energy transfer studies. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) images of the RCLH1 and LH2 patterns show the deposition of monomolecular layers of complexes on the glass substrate. Spectral imaging and fluorescence life-time imaging microscopy (FLIM) revealed that RCLH1 and LH2 complexes, sealed under physiological conditions, retained their native light-harvesting and energy transfer functions. Measurements of the amplitude and lifetime decay of fluorescence emission from LH2 complexes, the energy transfer donors, and gain of fluorescence emission from acceptor RCLH1 complexes, provide evidence for excitation energy transfer from LH2 to RCLH1. Directional energy transfer on the glass substrate was unequivocally established by using LH2-carotenoid complexes and RCLH1 complexes with genetically re	2021	6	21	Lab Chip	Lab on a chip	Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Huang	Xia
32655361	10.3389/fnins.2020.00643	Toll-Like Receptor 4 in the Rat Caudal Medulla Mediates Tooth Pulp Inflammatory Pain.	The aims of this study were to investigate if Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is expressed in the medullary dorsal horn (MDH) and if medullary application of a TLR4 antagonist (lipopolysaccharides from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, LPS-RS) can attenuate changes in nociceptive sensorimotor responses or TLR4 expression that might be evoked by mustard oil (MO) application to the right maxillary first molar tooth pulp. Of 41 adult male Sprague-Dawley rats used in the study, 23 received intrathecal application of the TLR4 antagonist LPS-RS (25 ..g/10 ..l; LPS-RS group) or isotonic saline (10 ..l; vehicle control group) 10 min before pulpal application of MO (95%; 0.2 ..l). Bilateral electromyographic (EMG) activities of the anterior digastric and masseter muscles were recorded continuously before and until 15 min after the MO application to the pulp. In 6 of these 23 rats and an additional 18 rats, the caudal medulla containing the ipsilateral and contralateral MDH was removed after euthanasi	2020	9	28	Front Neurosci	Frontiers in neuroscience	LPS; LPS-RS; electromyography; mustard oil; toll-like receptor ... 4; tooth pulp inflammation	Filippini	Helena F
32632533	10.1007/s11120-020-00770-7	Bound detergent molecules in bacterial reaction centers facilitate detection of tetryl explosive.	Bacterial reaction centers (BRC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were found to accelerate, about 100-fold, the reaction between tetryl (2,4,6-trinitrophenylmethylnitramine) explosive and n-lauryl-N-N-dimethylamine-N-oxide (LDAO) that results in the formation of picric acid-like product with characteristic UV-VIS absorption spectrum with peaks at 345 and 415..nm. Moreover, this product also affects the spectra of BRC cofactors in the NIR spectral region and stabilizes the conformational changes associated with slow charge recombination. The evolution of the NIR absorption changes correlated with the kinetics of the product formation. Comparison between the wild-type and the R26 carotenoid-less strain indicates that tetryl-LDAO reaction is roughly five times faster for R26, which allows for identifying the carotenoid binding site as the optimal reaction site. Another, less-defined reaction site is located in the BRC's hydrophobic cavity. These effects are highly selective for tetryl and not	2021	6	21	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacterial reaction center; Conformational changes; Electrochromism; Electron transfer; Explosive detection; Photosynthesis; Aniline Compounds; Carotenoids; Detergents; Dimethylamines; Electron Transport; Explosive Agents; Kinetics; Limit of Detection; Nitrobenzenes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Modafferi	Daniel
32567283	10.13345/j.cjb.190389	[Concomitant use of immobilized uridine-cytidine kinase and polyphosphate kinase for 5'-cytidine monophosphate production].	Uridine-cytidine kinase, an important catalyst in the compensation pathway of nucleotide metabolism, can catalyze the phosphorylation reaction of cytidine to 5'-cytidine monophosphate (CMP), but the reaction needs NTP as the phosphate donor. To increase the production efficiency of CMP, uridine-cytidine kinase gene from Thermus thermophilus HB8 and polyphosphate kinase gene from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). Uridine-cytidine kinase was used for the generation of CMP from cytidine and ATP, and polyphosphate kinase was used for the regeneration of ATP. Then, the D403 metal chelate resin was used to adsorb Ni..... to form an immobilized carrier, and the immobilized carrier was specifically combined with the recombinant enzymes to form the immobilized enzymes. Finally, single-factor optimization experiment was carried out to determine the reaction conditions of the immobilized enzyme. At 30 ..C and pH 8.0, 60 mmol/L cytidine and 0.5 mmol/L	2020	6	24	Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao	Sheng wu gong cheng xue bao = Chinese journal of biotechnology	5...-cytidine monophosphate; immobilized enzyme; polyphosphate kinase; uridine-cytidine kinase; Cytidine Monophosphate; Escherichia coli; Industrial Microbiology; Phosphotransferases (Phosphate Group Acceptor); Uridine Kinase	Wu	Sijia
32553532	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.06.010	Molecular understanding of autotrophic CO<sub>2</sub>-fixing bacterial communities in composting based on RuBisCO genes analysis.	The CO2 fixation by autotrophic microbes has an important significance for improving carbon sequestration in composting. In this work, the succession of autotrophic CO2-fixing bacterial communities was investigated using quantitative PCR and high-throughput sequencing of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase genes (cbbL and cbbM). The results presented that the number of autotrophic CO2-fixing bacteria was comparable to that in the soil, and most species have not been classified into known bacterial groups, only part of them was assigned into Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria. Phylogenetic analysis displayed that the dominant known cbbL-containing bacteria were Allochromatium vinosum, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Nitrobacter winogradskyi, Paracoccus yeei and Porphyrobacter sp. CACIAM 03H1, while the dominant known cbbM-containing bacteria were Sulfuritalea hydrogenivorans, Pseudomonas resinovorans, Achromobacter xylosoxidans, Sphingopyxis macr	2021	2	8	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Autotrophic CO(2)-fixing bacteria; Composting; High-throughput sequencing; cbbL; cbbM; Autotrophic Processes; Bacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Carbon Dioxide; Composting; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Microbial Consortia; Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase	Li	Mingqi
32533935	10.1016/j.bbabio.2020.148238	Primary electron transfer in Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 reaction centers under dehydration conditions.	The photoinduced charge separation in QB-depleted reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 in solid air-dried and vacuum-dried (~10<sup>-2</sup>..Torr) films, obtained in the presence of detergent n-dodecyl-..-D-maltoside (DM), is characterized using ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy. It is shown that drying of RC-DM complexes is accompanied by reversible blue shifts of the ground-state absorption bands of the pigment ensemble, which suggest that no dehydration-induced structural destruction of RCs occurs in both types of films. In air-dried films, electron transfer from the excited primary electron donor P<sup>...</sup> to the photoactive bacteriopheophytin HA proceeds in 4.7..ps to form the P<sup>+</sup>HA<sup>-</sup> state with essentially 100% yield. P<sup>+</sup>HA<sup>-</sup> decays in 260..ps both by electron transfer to the primary quinone QA to give the state P<sup>+</sup>QA<sup>-</sup>	2020	10	26	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Dehydration; Electron transfer; Films; Reaction center; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transient absorption spectroscopy; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Zabelin	Alexey A
32507794	10.4265/bio.25.81	Use of Purple Non-Sulfur Photosynthetic Bacteria (Rhodobacter sphaeroides) in Promoting Ciliated Protozoa Growth.	Photosynthetic bacterium (PSB) was isolated from sediment samples of Yamagawa Bay, Kagoshima, Japan. Phylogenetic analysis results of PSB isolate were closely related to Rhodobacter sphaeroides, purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria (PNSB). Pink-colored smooth edges of single bacterial colonies were observed after 3-5 days of incubation period on Basic I medium agar plates. Rhodobacter sphaeroides microscopic examination showed a short rod cell (1-2 ..m length) with round ends. Sediment and water samples used for ciliates cultivation were collected from Kuwano-ura Bay, Koshiki Island, Japan. Ciliates were cultivated using fish meal with radish leaves medium (MI), with sediment into MI (MII) and algae media (MIII). The use of the algae media (MIII) in cultivation mixture produced the highest total number of ciliates. Big size ciliates were identified as Euplotes minuta and Cyclidium varibonneti, while small size was identified as Micrometopion nutans, based on PCR-DGGE. When ciliate	2021	4	12	Biocontrol Sci	Biocontrol science	Ciliate; DGGE community analysis; Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides ; Sediment; Animals; Aquatic Organisms; Ciliophora; Culture Media; Food Chain; Japan; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Teiba	Islam
32482937	10.4014/jmb.1911.11063	Inoculation with Indole-3-Acetic Acid-Producing Rhizospheric <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> KE149 Augments Growth of Adzuki Bean Plants Under Water Stress.	The use of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria is economically viable and environmentally safe for mitigating various plant stresses. Abiotic stresses such as flood and drought are a serious threat to present day agriculture. In the present study, the indole-3-acetic acid-producing rhizobacterium R. sphaeroides KE149 was selected, and its effect on the growth of adzuki bean plants was investigated under flood stress (FS) and drought stress (DS). IAA quantification of bacterial pure culture revealed that KE149 produced significant amount of IAA. KE149 inoculation significantly decreased stress-responsive endogenous abscisic acid and jasmonic acid and increased salicylic acid in plants under DS and FS. KE149 inoculation also increased proline under DS and methionine under FS. Moreover, KE149 inoculation significantly increased the calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), and potassium (K) content and lowered the sodium (Na) content in the plant shoot under stress. KE149-treated plants had s	2021	1	22	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Abiotic stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides KE149; drought; flood; phytohormones; Droughts; Floods; Indoleacetic Acids; Plant Growth Regulators; Rhizosphere; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stress, Physiological; Vigna	Kang	Sang-Mo
32449852	10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c02827	Computational Investigation of the Spin-Density Asymmetry in Photosynthetic Reaction Center Models from First Principles.	We present a computational analysis of the spin-density asymmetry in cation radical states of reaction center models from photosystem I, photosystem II, and bacteria from Synechococcus elongatus, Thermococcus vulcanus, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, respectively. The recently developed frozen-density embedding (FDE)-diab methodology [J. Chem. Phys., 2018, 148, 214104] allowed us to effectively avoid the spin-density overdelocalization error characteristic for the standard Kohn-Sham density functional theory and to reliably calculate spin-density distributions and electronic couplings for a number of molecular systems ranging from inner pairs of (bacterio)chlorophyll a molecules in vacuum to large proteins including up to about 2000 atoms. The calculated spin densities show a good agreement with available experimental results and were used to validate reaction center models reported in the literature. Here, we demonstrate that the applied t	2021	4	30	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Chlorophyll A; Molecular Structure; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechococcus	Artiukhin	Denis G
32446152	10.1016/j.bioelechem.2020.107549	Electricity from methanol using indigenous methylotrophs from hydraulic fracturing flowback water.	Methanol solvents that are used in hydraulic fracturing often return back to the surface in the form of recalcitrant flowback water. Here, the indigenous methylotrophic bacteria from flowback water were enriched and used to generate electricity from methanol in a two-compartment microbial fuel cell (CH3OH-MFC). An identical MFC based on a tryptone-yeast extract (TY-MFC) was used as a control. CH3OH-MFC yielded a 2.7-fold thicker biofilm dominated by electrogenic species (81%) and higher power density (76..mW/m<sup>2</sup>) compared with TY-MFC (50..mW/m<sup>2</sup>). Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene in TY-MFC revealed classes from Actinobacteria, Bacteroidia and ..-proteobacteria. The CH3OH-MFC yielded ..-proteobacteria, ..-proteobacteria, ..-proteobacteria and Bacteroidia, with a dominant fraction of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (~29%). We discuss the potential pathways used by R. sphaeroides to maintain syntrophic cooperation with other bacte	2021	3	12	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Biofilms; Flowback water; Illumina sequencing; Methylotrophs; Microbial electrochemical system; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacteria; Bioelectric Energy Sources; Biofilms; Electricity; Hydraulic Fracking; Methanol; Proof of Concept Study; Water Microbiology	Jawaharraj	Kalimuthu
32434926	10.1074/jbc.RA120.013697	A bacterial biosynthetic pathway for methylated furan fatty acids.	Fatty acids play many important roles in cells and also in industrial processes. Furan fatty acids (FuFAs) are present in the lipids of some plant, fish, and microbial species and appear to function as second messengers in pathways that protect cells from membrane-damaging agents. We report here the results of chemical, genetic, and synthetic biology experiments to decipher the biosynthesis of the monomethylated FuFA, methyl 9-(3-methyl-5-pentylfuran-2-yl) nonanoate (9M5-FuFA), and its dimethyl counterpart, methyl 9-(3,4-dimethyl-5-pentylfuran-2-yl) nonanoate (9D5-FuFA), in two ..-proteobacteria. Each of the steps in FuFA biosynthesis occurs on pre-existing phospholipid fatty acid chains, and we identified pathway intermediates and the gene products that catalyze 9M5-FuFA and 9D5-FuFA synthesis in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 and Rhodopseudomonas palustris CGA009. One previously unknown pathway intermediate was a methylated diunsaturated fatty acid, (10E,12E</i	2021	1	14	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	cell signaling; fatty acid metabolism; fatty acid modification; fatty acyl methylase; furan fatty acid; lipid metabolism; oxygenated fatty acids; phospholipid; polyunsaturated fatty acid; polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA); ..-proteobacteria; Biosynthetic Pathways; Fatty Acids; Furans; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas	Lemke	Rachelle A S
32430765	10.1007/s11120-020-00758-3	A comparative look at structural variation among RC-LH1 'Core' complexes present in anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria.	All purple photosynthetic bacteria contain RC-LH1 'Core' complexes. The structure of this complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Thermochromatium tepidum has been solved using X-ray crystallography. Recently, the application of single particle cryo-EM has revolutionised structural biology and the structure of the RC-LH1 'Core' complex from Blastochloris viridis has been solved using this technique, as well as the complex from the non-purple Chloroflexi species, Roseiflexus castenholzii. It is apparent that these structures are variations on a theme, although with a greater degree of structural diversity within them than previously thought. Furthermore, it has recently been discovered that the only phototrophic representative from the phylum Gemmatimonadetes, Gemmatimonas phototrophica, also contains a RC-LH1 'Core' complex. At present only a low-resolution EM-projection map exists but this shows that the Gemmatimonas phototrophica complex contains a double	2021	6	21	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Anoxygenic phototrophs; Light harvesting; Purple photosynthetic bacteria; RC...LH1; Reaction centres; Structures; Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Chromatiaceae; Energy Transfer; Genetic Variation; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas; Structure-Activity Relationship	Gardiner	Alastair T
32430476	10.1128/mBio.00957-20	The NtrYX Two-Component System Regulates the Bacterial Cell Envelope.	Activity of the NtrYX two-component system has been associated with important processes in diverse bacteria, ranging from symbiosis to nitrogen and energy metabolism. In the facultative alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, loss of the two-component system NtrYX results in increased lipid production and sensitivity to some known cell envelope-active compounds. In this study, we show that NtrYX directly controls multiple properties of the cell envelope. We find that the response regulator NtrX binds upstream of cell envelope genes, including those involved in peptidoglycan biosynthesis and modification and in cell division. We show that loss of NtrYX impacts the cellular levels of peptidoglycan precursors and lipopolysaccharide and alters cell envelope structure, increasing cell length and the thickness of the periplasm. Cell envelope function is also disrupted in the absence of NtrYX, resulting in increased outer membrane permeability. Based on the properties of R. sp	2021	4	9	mBio	mBio	Rhodobacter; cell division; cell envelope; lipopolysaccharide; peptidoglycan; periplasm; proteobacteria; two-component system; Bacterial Outer Membrane; Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Signal Transduction	Lemmer	Kimberly C
32429424	10.3390/biom10050774	Living in a Foster Home: The Single Subpolar Flagellum Fla1 of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an ..-proteobacterium that has the particularity of having two functional flagellar systems used for swimming. Under the growth conditions commonly used in the laboratory, a single subpolar flagellum that traverses the cell membrane, is assembled on the surface. This flagellum has been named Fla1. Phylogenetic analyses have suggested that this flagellar genetic system was acquired from an ancient ..-proteobacterium. It has been shown that this flagellum has components homologous to those present in other ..-proteobacteria such as the H-ring characteristic of the Vibrio species. Other features of this flagellum such as a straight hook, and a prominent HAP region have been studied and the molecular basis underlying these features has been revealed. It has also been shown that FliL, and the protein MotF, mainly found in several species of the family Rhodobacteraceae, contribute to remodel the amphipathic region of MotB, known as the plug, in	2021	4	2	Biomolecules	Biomolecules	FlgP; FlgT; FliL; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; bacterial flagellum; flagellar hook; flagellar rod; motility; Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Membrane Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Camarena	Laura
32334589	10.1186/s12934-020-01345-w	CRISPR/Cas9-deaminase enables robust base editing in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	CRISPR/Cas9 systems have been repurposed as canonical genome editing tools in a variety of species, but no application for the model strain Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 was unveiled. Here we showed two kinds of programmable base editing systems, cytosine base editors (CBEs) and adenine base editors (ABEs), generated by fusing endonuclease Cas9 variant to cytosine deaminase PmCDA1 or heterodimer adenine deaminase TadA-TadA*, respectively. Using CBEs, we were able to obtain C-to-T mutation of single and double targets following the first induction step, with the efficiency of up to 97% and 43%; while the second induction step was needed in the case of triple target, with the screening rate of 47%. Using ABEs, we were only able to gain A-to-G mutation of single target after the second induction step, with the screening rate of 30%. Additionally, we performed a knockout analysis to identify the genes responsible for coenzyme Q10 biosynthesis and found that ubiF, ubiA, ubiG, and ubiX to be	2020	12	30	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Adenine base editors; CRISPR/Cas9; Coenzyme Q10; Cytosine base editors; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; CRISPR-Cas Systems; Gene Editing; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Luo	Yufeng
32271543	10.1021/acssynbio.0c00066	Introduction of the Menaquinone Biosynthetic Pathway into <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> and <i>de Novo</i> Synthesis of Menaquinone for Incorporation into Heterologously Expressed Integral Membrane Proteins.	Quinones are redox-active molecules that transport electrons and protons in organelles and cell membranes during respiration and photosynthesis. In addition to the fundamental importance of these processes in supporting life, there has been considerable interest in exploiting their mechanisms for diverse applications ranging from medical advances to innovative biotechnologies. Such applications include novel treatments to target pathogenic bacterial infections and fabricating biohybrid solar cells as an alternative renewable energy source. Ubiquinone (UQ) is the predominant charge-transfer mediator in both respiration and photosynthesis. Other quinones, such as menaquinone (MK), are additional or alternative redox mediators, for example in bacterial photosynthesis of species such as Thermochromatium tepidum and Chloroflexus aurantiacus. Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been used extensively to study electron transfer processes, and recently as a platform to produce inte	2021	4	30	ACS Synth Biol	ACS synthetic biology	genetic engineering; menaquinone; metabolic engineering; photosynthesis; synthetic biology; ubiquinone; Bacterial Proteins; Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Membrane Proteins; Metabolic Engineering; Photobleaching; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Plasmids; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Ubiquinone; Vitamin K 2	Jun	Daniel
32227861	10.1021/acsnano.0c00058	Minding the Gap between Plant and Bacterial Photosynthesis within a Self-Assembling Biohybrid Photosystem.	Many strategies for meeting mankind's future energy demands through the exploitation of plentiful solar energy have been influenced by the efficient and sustainable processes of natural photosynthesis. A limitation affecting solar energy conversion based on photosynthetic proteins is the selective spectral coverage that is the consequence of their particular natural pigmentation. Here we demonstrate the bottom-up formation of semisynthetic, polychromatic photosystems in mixtures of the chlorophyll-based LHCII major light harvesting complex from the oxygenic green plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the bacteriochlorophyll-based photochemical reaction center (RC) from the anoxygenic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and synthetic quantum dots (QDs). Polyhistidine tag adaptation of LHCII and the RC enabled predictable self-assembly of LHCII/RC/QD nanoconjugates, the thermodynamics of which could be accurately modeled and parametrized. The tricomponent biohybrid photosystems 	2021	5	14	ACS Nano	ACS nano	biohybrid; light harvesting; photosynthesis; quantum dots; self-assembly; solar energy conversion; Arabidopsis; Energy Transfer; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Thylakoids	Liu	Juntai
32207882	10.1111/1751-7915.13562	Functional replacement of isoprenoid pathways in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Advances in synthetic biology and metabolic engineering have proven the potential of introducing metabolic by-passes within cell factories. These pathways can provide a more efficient alternative to endogenous counterparts due to their insensitivity to host's regulatory mechanisms. In this work, we replaced the endogenous essential 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway for isoprenoid biosynthesis in the industrially relevant bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides by an orthogonal metabolic route. The native 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway was successfully replaced by a heterologous mevalonate (MVA) pathway from a related bacterium. The functional replacement was confirmed by analysis of the reporter molecule amorpha-4,11-diene after cultivation with [4-<sup>13</sup> C]glucose. The engineered R. sphaeroides strain relying exclusively on the MVA pathway was completely functional in conditions for sesquiterpene production and, upon increased expression of the MVA 	2021	5	14	Microb Biotechnol	Microbial biotechnology	Metabolic Engineering; Mevalonic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sesquiterpenes	Orsi	Enrico
32173664	10.4265/bio.25.25	Diversity of the Photosynthetic Bacterial Communities in Highly Eutrophicated Yamagawa Bay Sediments.	Yamagawa Bay, located in Ibusuki, Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan, is a geographically enclosed coastal marine inlet, and its deteriorating seabed sediments are under an anoxic, reductive, sulfide-rich condition. In order to gain insight into diversity of anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria (AnPBs) and their ecophysiological roles in the sediments, three approaches were adopted: isolation of AnPBs, PCR-DGGE of 16S rDNA, and PCR-DGGE of pufM. Among the bacterial isolates, relatives of Rhodobacter sphaeroides were most dominant, possibly contributing to transforming organic pollutants in the sediments. Abundance of Chlorobium phaeobacteroides BS1 was suggested by 16S rDNA PCR-DGGE. It could reflect intensive stratification and resultant formation of the anoxic, sulfide-rich layer in addition to extreme low-light adaptation of this strain. Diverse purple non-sulfur or sulfur bacteria as well as aerobic anoxygenic photoheterotrophs were also detected by pufM PCR-DGGE, which could be associated 	2020	11	23	Biocontrol Sci	Biocontrol science	16S rDNA; Anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria; Eutrophicated marine sediment; PCR-DGGE; pufM; Bacteria; Bays; Biodiversity; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Geologic Sediments; Japan; Microbiota; Photosynthesis; Phylogeny; Seawater	Teiba	Islam
32139606	10.1073/pnas.1920923117	A photosynthetic antenna complex foregoes unity carotenoid-to-bacteriochlorophyll energy transfer efficiency to ensure photoprotection.	Carotenoids play a number of important roles in photosynthesis, primarily providing light-harvesting and photoprotective energy dissipation functions within pigment-protein complexes. The carbon-carbon double bond (C=C) conjugation length of carotenoids (N), generally between 9 and 15, determines the carotenoid-to-(bacterio)chlorophyll [(B)Chl] energy transfer efficiency. Here we purified and spectroscopically characterized light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides containing the N = 7 carotenoid zeta (..)-carotene, not previously incorporated within a natural antenna complex. Transient absorption and time-resolved fluorescence show that, relative to the lifetime of the S1 state of ..-carotene in solvent, the lifetime decreases ...250-fold when ..-carotene is incorporated within LH2, due to transfer of excitation energy to the B800 and B850 BChls a These measurements show that energy transfer proceeds with an efficiency of ...1	2020	8	10	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	carotenoids; light-harvesting; photoprotection; photosynthesis; ultrafast spectroscopy; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Niedzwiedzki	Dariusz M
32125564	10.1007/s11120-020-00728-9	Mutation H(M202)L does not lead to the formation of a heterodimer of the primary electron donor in reaction centers of Rhodobacter sphaeroides when combined with mutation I(M206)H.	In photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) of purple bacteria, conserved histidine residues [His L173 and His M202 in Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides] are known to serve as fifth axial ligands to the central Mg atom of the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) molecules (PA and PB, respectively) that constitute the homodimer (BChl/BChl) primary electron donor P. In a number of previous studies, it has been found that replacing these residues with leucine, which cannot serve as a ligand to the Mg ion of BChl, leads to the assembly of heterodimer RCs with P represented by the BChl/BPheo pair. Here, we show that a homodimer P is assembled in Rba. sphaeroides RCs if the mutation H(M202)L is combined with the mutation of isoleucine to histidine at position M206 located in the immediate vicinity of PB. The resulting mutant H(M202)L/I(M206)H RCs are characterized using pigment analysis, redox titration, and a number of spectroscopic methods. It is shown that, compared to wi	2021	8	2	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Axial ligand; Electron transfer; Homodimer primary electron donor; Reaction center; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Bacteriochlorophylls; Dimerization; Electron Transport; Electrons; Histidine; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Khristin	Anton M
32125274	10.7554/eLife.53530	New approach for membrane protein reconstitution into peptidiscs and basis for their adaptability to different proteins.	Previously we introduced peptidiscs as an alternative to detergents to stabilize membrane proteins in solution (Carlson et al., 2018). Here, we present 'on-gradient' reconstitution, a new gentle approach for the reconstitution of labile membrane-protein complexes, and used it to reconstitute Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center complexes, demonstrating that peptidiscs can adapt to transmembrane domains of very different sizes and shapes. Using the conventional 'on-bead' approach, we reconstituted Escherichia coli proteins MsbA and MscS and find that peptidiscs stabilize them in their native conformation and allow for high-resolution structure determination by cryo-electron microscopy. The structures reveal that peptidisc peptides can arrange around transmembrane proteins differently, thus revealing the structural basis for why peptidiscs can stabilize such a large variety of membrane proteins. Together, our results establish the gentle and easy-to-use peptidiscs as a p	2021	5	4	Elife	eLife	Cryo-electron microscopy; E. coli; Peptidiscs; biochemistry; chemical biology; membrane mimetics; molecular biophysics; nanodiscs; structural biology; Bacterial Proteins; Cell Membrane; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Image Processing, Computer-Assisted; Membrane Proteins; Nanostructures; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Angiulli	Gabriella
32095925	10.1007/s11120-020-00724-z	High-pressure tuning of primary photochemistry in bacterial photosynthesis: membrane-bound versus detergent-isolated reaction centers.	While photosynthesis thrives at close to normal pressures and temperatures, it is presently well known that life is similarly commonplace in the hostile environments of the deep seas as well as around hydrothermal vents. It is thus imperative to understand how key biological processes perform under extreme conditions of high pressures and temperatures. Herein, comparative steady-state and picosecond time-resolved spectroscopic studies were performed on membrane-bound and detergent-purified forms of a YM210W mutant reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides under modulating conditions of high hydrostatic pressure applied at ambient temperature. A previously established breakage of the lone hydrogen bond formed between the RC primary donor and the protein scaffold was shown to take place in the membrane-bound RC at an almost 3 kbar higher pressure than in the purified RC, confirming the stabilizing role of the lipid environment for membrane proteins. The main change in the multi-e	2021	4	14	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Electron transfer; High hydrostatic pressure; Photosynthesis; Primary processes; Reaction center; YM210W mutant; Ascorbic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Detergents; Kinetics; Methylphenazonium Methosulfate; Micelles; Mutation; Photochemical Processes; Photochemistry; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Pressure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis; Temperature	Timpmann	K..u
32093084	10.3390/microorganisms8020283	Adaptation to Photooxidative Stress: Common and Special Strategies of the Alphaproteobacteria <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> and <i>Rhodobacter capsulatus</i>.	Photosynthetic bacteria have to deal with the risk of photooxidative stress that occurs in presence of light and oxygen due to the photosensitizing activity of (bacterio-) chlorophylls. Facultative phototrophs of the genus Rhodobacter adapt the formation of photosynthetic complexes to oxygen and light conditions, but cannot completely avoid this stress if environmental conditions suddenly change. R. capsulatus has a stronger pigmentation and faster switches to phototrophic growth than R. sphaeroides. However, its photooxidative stress response has not been investigated. Here, we compare both species by transcriptomics and proteomics, revealing that proteins involved in oxidation-reduction processes, DNA, and protein damage repair play pivotal roles. These functions are likely universal to many phototrophs. Furthermore, the alternative sigma factors RpoE and RpoHII are induced in both species, even though the genetic localization of the rpoE gene, 	2020	9	28	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Rhodobacter capsulatus; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; photooxidative stress; proteomics; stress defense; transcriptomics	Licht	Mathieu K
32087359	10.1016/j.bbapap.2020.140393	Conformational analysis of the riboflavin-responsive ETF:QO-p.Pro456Leu variant associated with mild multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency.	Multiple-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD) is an inborn disorder of fatty acid and amino acid metabolism caused by mutations in the genes encoding for human electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) and its partner electron transfer flavoprotein:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (ETF:QO). Albeit a rare disease, extensive newborn screening programs contributed to a wider coverage of MADD genotypes. However, the impact of non-lethal mutations on ETF:QO function remains scarcely understood from a structural perspective. To this end, we here revisit the relatively common MADD mutation ETF:QO-p.Pro456Leu, in order to clarify how it affects enzyme structure and folding. Given the limitation in recombinant expression of human ETF:QO, we resort to its bacterial homologue from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (Rs), in which the corresponding mutation (p.Pro389Leu) was inserted. The in vitro biochemical and biophysical investigations of the Rs ETF:QO-p.Pro389Leu variant showed that, while the mutation does not sign	2020	7	20	Biochim Biophys Acta Proteins Proteom	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Proteins and proteomics	Flavin; Flavoprotein; Glutaric aciduria type II; Inborn errors metabolism; Protein folding; Bacteria; Electron-Transferring Flavoproteins; Enzyme Stability; Flavin-Adenine Dinucleotide; Flavoproteins; Genotype; Humans; Kinetics; Models, Molecular; Multiple Acyl Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency; Mutation; Protein Conformation; Protein Folding; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Riboflavin; Ubiquinone	Lucas	T..nia G
32072784	10.13345/j.cjb.190165	[Reinforcement of Rhodobacter sphaeroides cofactor NADPH to increase the production of farnesol].	Farnesol (FOH) is produced by dephosphorylation of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) derived from two universal building blocks, dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP) and isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP). In Rhodobacter sphaeroides these building blocks are generated by MEP pathway, however, many of the biosynthetic reactions and biotransformations in the MEP pathway are limited by low availability of NADPH. Improvement of the amount of intracellular NADPH may enhance the synthesis of FOH. In this study, we utilized the strategies of increasing the production of NADPH and decreasing the consumption of NADPH. The expression of glucose 6-phosphate isomerase (pgi) and glutamate dehydrogenase (gdhA) were inhibited by RNA interference, respectively, and overexpression of 6-glucose phosphate dehydrogenase (zwf) and 6-glucose phosphate dehydrogenase (gnd) in the pentose phosphate pathway were carried out. The results showed that the content of NADPH in the recombinant strains increased significantly, the h	2020	2	25	Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao	Sheng wu gong cheng xue bao = Chinese journal of biotechnology	NADPH; RNA interfering; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; farnesol; Farnesol; Glucosephosphate Dehydrogenase; NADP; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Xu	Man
32014377	10.1016/j.euroneuro.2019.12.121	Role of toll-like receptor 4 antagonist Lipopolysaccharide-Rhodobacter sphaeroides on acute stress-induced voluntary ethanol preference and drinking behaviour: In vivo Swiss Albino mouse model.	The present study focused on investigating the effect of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) antagonist Lipopolysaccharide-Rhodobacter sphaeroides(LPS-RS) on acute, stress-induced voluntary ethanol preference and drinking behaviour, neuronal components activation, and gene expression associated with stress and addictive behaviour. This study involved the exposure of restraint stress and social isolation using Swiss Albino mice. Two-bottle choice ethanol preference analysis was used in the evaluation of voluntary ethanol seeking and drinking behaviour. Several behavioural assessments were carried out to assess fear and anxiety-like behaviour, neuromuscular ability, motor coordination and locomotion. Morphological and immunoreactivity analysis and gene expression analysis were done after the completion of behavioural assessments. TLR4 antagonist LPS-RS treated stressed-mice showed a significant decrease in ethanol drinking compared with stressed mice. Behavioural results showed that stress expos	2021	12	17	Eur Neuropsychopharmacol	European neuropsychopharmacology : the journal of the European College of Neuropsychopharmacology	Acute stress; Drinking behaviour; Prefrontal cortex; Toll-like receptor 4; Voluntary alcohol seeking; Alcohol Drinking; Animals; Ethanol; Lipopolysaccharides; Mice; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Chuang	Huei Gau
32011132	10.1021/jacs.9b11433	Exploring Coupled Redox and pH Processes with a Force-Field-Based Approach: Applications to Five Different Systems.	Coupled redox and pH-driven processes are at the core of many important biological mechanisms. As the distribution of protonation and redox states in a system is associated with the pH and redox potential of the solution, having efficient computational tools that can simulate under these conditions becomes very important. Such tools have the potential to provide information that complement and drive experiments. In previous publications we have presented the implementation of the constant pH and redox potential molecular dynamics (C(pH,E)MD) method in AMBER and we have shown how multidimensional replica exchange can be used to significantly enhance the convergence efficiency of our simulations. In the current work, after an improvement in our C(pH,E)MD approach that allows a given residue to be simultaneously pH- and redox-active, we have employed our methodologies to study five different systems of interest in the literature. We present results for capped tyrosine dipept	2020	8	27	J Am Chem Soc	Journal of the American Chemical Society	NA	Cruzeiro	Vin..cius Wilian D
31993848	10.1007/s10295-020-02261-z	Enhancement of NADPH availability for coproduction of coenzyme Q<sub>10</sub> and farnesol from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10)-an essential cofactor in the respiratory electron transport chain-has important pharmaceutical and healthcare applications. Farnesol (FOH)-an acyclic sesquiterpene alcohol-has garnered interest owing to its valuable clinical and medical benefits. Here, the coproduction of CoQ10 and FOH in Rhodobacter sphaeroides GY-2 was greatly improved through the enhancement of intracellular NADPH availability. Transcription of pgi, gdhA, and nuocd was, respectively, inhibited using RNA interference to reduce intracellular NAD(P)H consumption. Moreover, zwf, gnd, and zwf...+...gnd were overexpressed to enhance the pentose phosphate pathway, resulting in improved NADPH availability in most metabolically engineered R. sphaeroides strains. RSg-pgi with RNAi of pgi combined with overexpression of gnd produced 55.05..mg/L FOH that is twofold higher than the parental strain GY-2, and 185.5..mg/L CoQ10 can be coproduced at the same time. In c	2020	6	11	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Carbon flux; CoQ10; FOH; NADPH; RNA interference; Farnesol; Metabolic Engineering; NADP; Pentose Phosphate Pathway; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Xu	Man
31989175	10.1093/nar/gkaa044	A single-component light sensor system allows highly tunable and direct activation of gene expression in bacterial cells.	Light-regulated modules offer unprecedented new ways to control cellular behaviour with precise spatial and temporal resolution. Among a variety of bacterial light-switchable gene expression systems, single-component systems consisting of single transcription factors would be more useful due to the advantages of speed, simplicity, and versatility. In the present study, we developed a single-component light-activated bacterial gene expression system (eLightOn) based on a novel LOV domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsLOV). The eLightOn system showed significant improvements over the existing single-component bacterial light-activated expression systems, with benefits including a high ON/OFF ratio of &gt;500-fold, a high activation level, fast activation kinetics, and/or good adaptability. Additionally, the induction characteristics, including regulatory windows, activation kinetics and light sensitivities, were highly tunable by altering the expression level of LexRO. We demonstrated 	2020	5	20	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Division; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Kinetics; Light; Logic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Li	Xie
31971387	10.1021/acs.jpcb.9b11899	Comparison of the Energy-Transfer Rates in Structural and Spectral Variants of the B800-850 Complex from Purple Bacteria.	Photosynthetic light harvesting can occur with a remarkable near-unity quantum efficiency. The B800-850 complex, also known as light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2), is the primary light-harvesting complex in purple bacteria and has been extensively studied as a model system. The bacteriochlorophylls of the B800-850 complex are organized into two concentric rings, known as the B800 and B850 rings. However, depending on the species and growth conditions, the number of constituent subunits, the pigment geometry, and the absorption energies vary. While the dynamics of some B800-850 variants have been exhaustively characterized, others have not been measured. Furthermore, a direct and simultaneous comparison of how both structural and spectral differences between variants affect these dynamics has not been performed. In this work, we utilize ultrafast transient absorption measurements to compare the B800 to B850 energy-transfer rates in the B800-850 complex as a function of the number of subuni	2021	3	29	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Crystallography, X-Ray; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter; Rhodospirillum	Tong	Ashley L
31937882	10.1038/s41598-019-57115-1	Coherent intradimer dynamics in reaction centers of photosynthetic green bacterium Chloroflexus aurantiacus.	Early-time dynamics of absorbance changes (light minus dark) in the long-wavelength Qy absorption band of bacteriochlorophyll dimer P of isolated reaction centers (RCs) from thermophilic green bacterium Chloroflexus (Cfx.) aurantiacus was studied by difference pump-probe spectroscopy with 18-fs resolution at cryogenic temperature. It was found that the stimulated emission spectrum gradually moves to the red on the ~100-fs time scale and subsequently oscillates with a major frequency of ~140...cm<sup>-1</sup>. By applying the non-secular Redfield theory and linear susceptibility theory, the coherent dynamics of the stimulated emission from the excited state of the primary electron donor, bacteriochlorophyll dimer P*, was modeled. The model showed the possibility of an extremely fast transition from the locally excited state P1* to the spectrally different excited state P2*. This transition is clearly seen in the kinetics of the stimulated emission at 880	2020	11	17	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Signal Transduction; Temperature	Yakovlev	Andrei G
31932315	10.1128/JB.00678-19	The CtrA Regulon of Rhodobacter sphaeroides Favors Adaptation to a Particular Lifestyle.	Activation of the two-component system formed by CckA, ChpT, and CtrA (kinase, phosphotransferase, and response regulator, respectively) in Rhodobacter sphaeroides does not occur under the growth conditions commonly used in the laboratory. However, it is possible to isolate a gain-of-function mutant in CckA that turns the system on. Using massive parallel transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq), we identified 321 genes that are differentially regulated by CtrA. From these genes, 239 were positively controlled and 82 were negatively regulated. Genes encoding the Fla2 polar flagella and gas vesicle proteins are strongly activated by CtrA. Genes involved in stress responses as well as several transcriptional factors are also positively controlled, whereas the photosynthetic and CO2 fixation genes are repressed. Potential CtrA-binding sites were bioinformatically identified, leading to the proposal that at least 81 genes comprise the direct regulon. Based on our results, we po	2020	10	20	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	CtrA regulon; RNA-seq; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; flagella; gas vesicles; photosynthesis; riboswitch; Adaptation, Biological; Bacterial Proteins; Computational Biology; Conserved Sequence; Gene Expression Profiling; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Photosynthesis; Position-Specific Scoring Matrices; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Repetitive Sequences, Nucleic Acid; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors	Hern..ndez-Valle	Jos..
31922165	10.1039/c9pp00424f	Dimerization of LOV domains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RsLOV) studied with FRET and stopped-flow experiments.	The bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides has a short LOV (light-oxygen-voltage) domain, which is not connected to an effector domain but has an ..-helix extension at the N-terminus as well as a helix-turn-helix (HTH) motiv at the C-terminus. These extensions offer possibilities for interactions with effector enzymes or DNA. Whereas many LOV domains show a tendency to form dimers in the light state, RsLOV is unique in that it is a dimer in the dark state but dissociates into monomers after blue-light excitation. We studied the kinetics of this dimerization process by a combination of FRET spectroscopy and stopped-flow experiments with a time resolution of ...10 ms. Although excitation of the flavin chromophore in dye-labeled LOV domains leads to considerable FRET from flavin to the dye, the typical adduct formation between flavin and a nearby cysteine still occurs with considerable yield. We obtain a rate constant for LOV-LOV dimerization in the range (0.8-1.8) .. 105 M-1 s-1, and an equil	2020	3	12	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Coloring Agents; Dimerization; Flavins; Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light; Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical; Protein Domains; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Magerl	Kathrin
31906991	10.1186/s12974-019-1690-2	Toll-like receptor 4 agonist and antagonist lipopolysaccharides modify innate immune response in rat brain circumventricular organs.	The circumventricular organs (CVOs) are blood-brain-barrier missing structures whose activation through lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a starting point for TLR-driven (Toll-like receptors) neuroinflammation. The aim of this study was to evaluate in the CVO area postrema (AP), subfornical organ (SFO), and median eminence (ME), the inflammatory response to two TLR4 agonists: LPS from Escherichia coli (EC-LPS), the strongest endotoxin molecule described, and LPS from Porphyromonas gingivalis (PG-LPS), a pathogenic bacteria present in the periodontium related to neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative/psychiatric diseases. The response to LPS from the cyanobacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RS-LPS), a TLR4 antagonist with an interesting anti-inflammatory potential, was also assessed. LPSs were intraperitoneally administered to Wistar rats and, as indicatives of neuroinflammation in CVOs, the cellular localization of the nuclear factor NF-..B was studied by immunofluorescence, and microglia morp	2020	11	9	J Neuroinflammation	Journal of neuroinflammation	Bacterial infection; Blood-brain interfaces; Immunofluorescence; Innate immunity; Microglia; Animals; Brain; Circumventricular Organs; Immunity, Innate; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; NF-kappa B; Rats; Rats, Wistar; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Vargas-Caraveo	Alejandra
31804918	10.1099/ijsem.0.003913	<i>Rhodobacter sediminicola</i> sp. nov., isolated from a fresh water pond.	A phototrophic bacterium, designated as strain JA983<sup>T</sup>, was isolated from a freshwater pond in Gujarat, India. The strain was yellowish brown, catalase- and oxidase-positive, rod-to-oval shaped, Gram-stain-negative and motile. Growth was observed at 20-35.....C. NaCl was not required for optimum growth and up to 5...% was tolerated. Growth was observed at pH 6.0-8.0, with an optimum at pH 7.0. An unidentified glycolipid, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol, two unidentified aminolipids (AL1, AL2) and two unidentified lipids (L1 and L2) are the polar lipids of JA983<sup>T</sup>. Q10 is the only quinone. C18...:...1.....7c/C18...:...1.....6c is the major fatty acid. JA983<sup>T</sup> showed highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with the type strains of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (98.99%), Rhodobacter megalophilus (98.99...%), Rhodobacter johrii (98.99...%) and other	2020	3	11	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Rhodobacter sediminicolasp. nov; freshwater pond; Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Composition; DNA, Bacterial; Fatty Acids; India; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Phospholipids; Phylogeny; Pigmentation; Ponds; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rhodobacter; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Ubiquinone	G	Suresh
31298290	10.1093/rheumatology/kez259	Monosodium urate crystal interleukin-1.. release is dependent on Toll-like receptor 4 and transient receptor potential V1 activation.	The present study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms involved in MSU-induced IL-1.. release in a rodent animal model of acute gout arthritis. Painful (mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity, ongoing pain and arthritis score) and inflammatory (oedema, plasma extravasation, cell infiltration and IL-1.. release) parameters were assessed several hours after intra-articular injection of MSU (100 ..g/articulation) in wild-type or knockout mice for Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), transient receptor potential (TRP) V1 and the IL-1 receptor (IL-1R). Also, wild-type animals were treated with clodronate, lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS) (TLR4 antagonist), spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) inhibitor (iSYK), aminoguanidine (AMG, an iNOS inhibitor) or SB366791 (TRPV1 antagonist). Nitrite/nitrate and IL-1.. levels were measured on the synovial fluid of wild-type mice, 2 h after intra-articular MSU injections, or medium from macrophages stimulate	2020	4	20	Rheumatology (Oxford)	Rheumatology (Oxford, England)	cytokines; gout; inflammation; macrophage; nociception; Animals; Arthritis, Gouty; Cells, Cultured; Disease Models, Animal; Female; Interleukin-18; Macrophages; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Mice, Knockout; Receptors, Vasopressin; Synovial Fluid; TRPV Cation Channels; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Uric Acid	Rossato	Mateus F
30741729	10.1097/FBP.0000000000000474	A further assessment of a role for Toll-like receptor 4 in the reinforcing and reinstating effects of opioids.	The Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) antagonists, (+)-naloxone and (+)-naltrexone, have been reported to decrease self-administration of opioids in rats and to reduce other preclinical indicators of abuse potential. However, under the self-administration conditions studied, the effects of TLR4 antagonists were not reinforcer selective, questioning the involvement of those receptors and their mediated inflammatory response specifically in opioid abuse. The objectives of the current study were to further characterize the reinforcer specificity of TLR4 antagonism in opioid self-administration and to explore its effects in a preclinical model of craving/relapse. The TLR4 antagonist (+)-naltrexone decreased responding in rats trained to self-administer the ..-opioid receptor agonist remifentanil, but with a potency that was not significantly different from that observed in another group of subjects in which responding was maintained by food reinforcement. Responding reinstated by heroin injectio	2020	11	17	Behav Pharmacol	Behavioural pharmacology	Analgesics, Opioid; Animals; Conditioning, Operant; Heroin; Male; Naloxone; Naltrexone; Narcotic Antagonists; Opioid-Related Disorders; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Reinforcement, Psychology; Self Administration; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Yue	Kai
35546979	10.22092/ari.2021.356202.1803	Renoprotective Potential of the Ultra-Pure Lipopolysaccharide from..Rhodobacter Sphaeroides on Acutely Injured Kidneys in an Animal Model.	One of the main causes of acute kidney injury is ischemic reperfusion injury (IRI). Inflammatory response, apoptotic damages, and oxidative stress-related injuries are all involved in the pathogenesis of IRI. Toll-like receptors (TLR) are strongly associated with IRIs, especially TLR4, which is markedly induced in response to IRI. Accordingly, the current study aimed to investigate the potential renoprotective effect of ultrapure lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (ULPS-RS) at two doses in an animal model of bilateral IRI. A total of 30 adult male rats were divided randomly into five equal groups of control (laparotomy plus bilateral renal IRI), vehicle (same as the control group, but pretreated with the vehicle), sham (laparotomy only), ULPS-RS (same as the control group, but pretreated with 0.1 mg/kg of ULPS-RS), and ULPS-RSH (same as the control group, but pretreated with 0.2 mg/kg of ULPS-RS). Subsequent to 30 min of ischemia and 2 h of reperfusion, serum sample	2022	5	17	Arch Razi Inst	Archives of Razi Institute	 Bax;  Bcl2;  F2-isoprostane;  IL-1..;  IL6;  Ischemic reperfusion injury;  NGAL;  TNF..;  pure TLR4 antagonist; Animals; Disease Models, Animal; Kidney; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2; Rats; Reperfusion Injury; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Aal-Aaboda	M S
35096337	10.22092/ari.2021.356003.1761	Effect of Lipopolysaccharide from <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> on Inflammatory Pathway and Oxidative Stress in Renal Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury in Male Rats.	Ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is caused by a sudden temporary impairment of the blood flow to the particular organ. The IRI of the kidneys is one of the main causes of acute kidney injury. A vigorous inflammatory and oxidative stress response to hypoxia and reperfusion usually happens as IRI consequences that disturb the organ function. The current study aimed to investigate the effect of antagonizing toll-like receptors (TLRs) effects by lipopolysaccharide obtained from..Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS) on this critical condition. In total, 28 adult male Wistar rats were divided into four groups (n=7) as follows: the sham group which underwent only laparotomy; control group that underwent laparotomy and IRI induction; vehicle group which was similar to the control group plus vehicle treatment, LPS-RS group that was similar to the control group but was pretreated with 0.5 mg/kg of LPS-RS. The results of the current research showed that LPS-RS reduced interleukin-1.., interle	2022	3	15	Arch Razi Inst	Archives of Razi Institute	F2-Isoprostane ; IL-1..; IL-6; Lps-Rs; Neutrophil Gelatinase Associated Lipocalin; Ngal; Renal Ischemic Reperfusion Injury; TLR2; TLR4; TNF-..; Animals; Ischemia; Kidney; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Oxidative Stress; Rats; Rats, Wistar; Reperfusion Injury; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rodent Diseases	Aal-Aaboda	M
34977685	10.1016/j.xpro.2021.101044	Purification and preparation of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> reaction centers for photocurrent measurements and atomic force microscopy characterization.	The formation of defined surfaces consisting of photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) in biohybrid solar cells is challenging. Here, we start with the production of engineered RCs for oriented binding. RCs are deposited onto gold electrodes, and 6-mercapto-1-hexanol (MCH) is used to displace multilayers and non-specifically adsorbed RCs. The resulting electrode surfaces are analyzed for photocurrent generation using an intensity-modulated light and lock-in amplifier. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) is used to characterize the surface and the formation of RC structural assemblies. For complete details on the use and execution of this profile, please refer to Jun et..al. (2021).	2022	4	8	STAR Protoc	STAR protocols	Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM); Biophysics; Chemistry; Energy; Material sciences; Microbiology; Microscopy; Physics; Protein Biochemistry; Protein expression and purification; Electrodes; Gold; Microscopy, Atomic Force; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Jun	Daniel
34946518	10.3390/molecules26247437	Anti-Oxidant and Anti-Inflammatory Effects of Lipopolysaccharide from <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> against Ethanol-Induced Liver and Kidney Toxicity in Experimental Rats.	This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (LPS-RS) against ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity in experimental rats. The study involved an intact control group, LPS-RS group, two groups were given ethanol (3 and 5 g/kg/day) for 28 days, and two other groups (LPS-RS + 3 g/kg ethanol) and (LPS-RS + 5 g/kg ethanol) received a daily dose of LPS-RS (800 ..g/kg) before ethanol. Ethanol significantly increased the expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-..B) and levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-..) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the liver tissue and decreased anti-oxidant enzymes. Hepcidin expression was downregulated in the liver, with increased serum levels of ferritin and iron. Prior-administration of LPS-RS alleviated the increase in oxidative stress and inflammatory markers, and preserved iron homeostasis markers. In the kidney, administration of ethanol caused significant 	2022	2	14	Molecules	Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	alcoholic liver disease; hepcidin; kidney injury molecule-1; lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides; nuclear factor kappa B; toll-like receptor 4; Animals; Anti-Inflammatory Agents; Antioxidants; Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury; Ethanol; Kidney Diseases; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Rats; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Mehanna	Eman T
34907018	10.1073/pnas.2116439118	Photosynthetic reaction center variants made via genetic code expansion show Tyr at M210 tunes the initial electron transfer mechanism.	Photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides were engineered to vary the electronic properties of a key tyrosine (M210) close to an essential electron transfer component via its replacement with site-specific, genetically encoded noncanonical amino acid tyrosine analogs. High fidelity of noncanonical amino acid incorporation was verified with mass spectrometry and X-ray crystallography and demonstrated that RC variants exhibit no significant structural alterations relative to wild type (WT). Ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy indicates the excited primary electron donor, P*, decays via a ...4-ps and a ...20-ps population to produce the charge-separated state P<sup>+</sup>HA <sup>-</sup> in all variants. Global analysis indicates that in the ...4-ps population, P<sup>+</sup>HA <sup>-</sup> forms through a two-step process, P*... P<sup>+</sup>BA <sup>-</sup>... P<sup>+</sup>HA <sup>-</sup>, while in the ...	2022	1	12	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Stark spectroscopy; noncanonical amino acid; reaction center; superexchange; ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Electron Transport; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genetic Variation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Weaver	Jared Bryce
34830143	10.3390/ijms222212260	Maturation of UTR-Derived sRNAs Is Modulated during Adaptation to Different Growth Conditions.	Small regulatory RNAs play a major role in bacterial gene regulation by binding their target mRNAs, which mostly influences the stability or translation of the target. Expression levels of sRNAs are often regulated by their own promoters, but recent reports have highlighted the presence and importance of sRNAs that are derived from mRNA 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). In this study, we investigated the maturation of 5' and 3' UTR-derived sRNAs on a global scale in the facultative phototrophic alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Including some already known UTR-derived sRNAs like UpsM or CcsR1-4, 14 sRNAs are predicted to be located in 5 UTRs and 16 in 3' UTRs. The involvement of different ribonucleases during maturation was predicted by a differential RNA 5'/3' end analysis based on RNA next generation sequencing (NGS) data from the respective deletion strains. The results were validated in vivo and underline the importance of polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase) and 	2021	12	20	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Alphaproteobacteria; RNase E; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; UTR-derived sRNA; ribonucleases; sRNA processing and maturation; 3' Untranslated Regions; 5' Untranslated Regions; Adaptation, Physiological; Endoribonucleases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Gene Knockout Techniques; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Hydrogen Peroxide; Oxidants; Polyribonucleotide Nucleotidyltransferase; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Small Untranslated; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Spanka	Daniel-Timon
34793767	10.1016/j.bbabio.2021.148508	FRET measurement of cytochrome bc<sub>1</sub> and reaction centre complex proximity in live Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells.	In the model purple phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides, solar energy is converted via coupled electron and proton transfer reactions within the intracytoplasmic membranes (ICMs), infoldings of the cytoplasmic membrane that form spherical 'chromatophore' vesicles. These bacterial 'organelles' are ideal model systems for studying how the organisation of the photosynthetic complexes therein shape membrane architecture. In Rba. sphaeroides, light-harvesting 2 (LH2) complexes transfer absorbed excitation energy to dimeric reaction centre (RC)-LH1-PufX complexes. The PufX polypeptide creates a channel that allows the lipid soluble electron carrier quinol, produced by RC photochemistry, to diffuse to the cytochrome bc1 complex, where quinols are oxidised to quinones, with the liberated protons used to generate a transmembrane proton gradient and the electrons returned to the RC via cytochrome c2. Proximity between cytochrome bc1 and RC-LH1-P	2022	2	16	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Atomic force microscopy (AFM); Cytochrome bc(1); Fluorescence-lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM); Photosynthesis; Purple bacteria; Reaction centre; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Vasilev	Cvetelin
34738044	10.1016/j.synbio.2021.09.011	Screening and engineering of high-activity promoter elements through transcriptomics and red fluorescent protein visualization in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	The versatile photosynthetic ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, has recently been extensively engineered as a novel microbial cell factory (MCF) to produce pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, commodity chemicals and even hydrogen. However, there are no well-characterized high-activity promoters to modulate gene transcription during the engineering of R. sphaeroides. In this study, several native promoters from R. sphaeroides JDW-710 (JDW-710), an industrial strain producing high levels of co-enzyme Q10 (Q10) were selected on the basis of transcriptomic analysis. These candidate promoters were then characterized by using gusA as a reporter gene. Two native promoters, P rsp _ 7571 and P rsp _ 6124 , showed 620% and 800% higher activity, respectively, than the tac promoter, which has previously been used for gene overexpression in R.	2021	11	6	Synth Syst Biotechnol	Synthetic and systems biotechnology	Co-enzyme Q10; Promoter library; Red fluorescent protein; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptomics	Shi	Tong
34728609	10.1038/s41467-021-26561-9	A previously unrecognized membrane protein in the Rhodobacter sphaeroides LH1-RC photocomplex.	Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides is the most widely used model organism in bacterial photosynthesis. The light-harvesting-reaction center (LH1-RC) core complex of this purple phototroph is characterized by the co-existence of monomeric and dimeric forms, the presence of the protein PufX, and approximately two carotenoids per LH1 ....-polypeptides. Despite many efforts, structures of the Rba. sphaeroides LH1-RC have not been obtained at high resolutions. Here we report a cryo-EM structure of the monomeric LH1-RC from Rba. sphaeroides strain IL106 at 2.9..... resolution. The LH1 complex forms a C-shaped structure composed of 14 ....-polypeptides around the RC with a large ring opening. From the cryo-EM density map, a previously unrecognized integral membrane protein, referred to as protein-U, was identified. Protein-U has a U-shaped conformation near the LH1-ring opening and was annotated as a hypothetical protein in the Rba. sphaeroides genome. Deletion of protein-U resulted in a mutant s	2021	12	22	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bacterial Proteins; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Models, Molecular; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tani	Kazutoshi
34717624	10.1186/s12934-021-01695-z	Improving CoQ<sub>10</sub> productivity by strengthening glucose transmembrane of Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Several Rhodobacter sphaeroides have been widely applied in commercial CoQ10 production, but they have poor glucose use. Strategies for enhancing glucose use have been widely exploited in R. sphaeroides. Nevertheless, little research has focused on the role of glucose transmembrane in the improvement of production. There are two potential glucose transmembrane pathways in R. sphaeroides ATCC 17023: the fructose specific-phosphotransferase system (PTS<sup>Fru</sup>, fruAB) and non-PTS that relied on glucokinase (glk). fruAB mutation revealed two effects on bacterial growth: inhibition at the early cultivation phase (12-24..h) and promotion since 36..h. Glucose metabolism showed a corresponding change in characteristic vs. the growth. For ..fruA..fruB, maximum biomass (Biomax) was increased by 44.39% and the CoQ10 content was 27.08% more than that of the WT. glk mutation caused a significant decrease in growth and glucose metabolism. Over-expressing a galactose:H<sup>+</sup> symporter (g	2022	1	31	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	CoQ10 productivity; Glucose metabolism; Glucose transmembrane; R. sphaeroides; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Biomass; Calcium-Binding Proteins; Escherichia coli Proteins; Fermentation; Glucokinase; Glucose; Industrial Microbiology; Metabolic Engineering; Monosaccharide Transport Proteins; Mutation; Periplasmic Binding Proteins; Protein Kinases; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Yang	Yuying
34716892	10.1007/s43630-021-00121-y	Porous silicon pillar structures/photosynthetic reaction centre protein hybrid for bioelectronic applications.	Photosynthetic biomaterials have attracted considerable attention at different levels of the biological organisation, from molecules to the biosphere, due to a variety of artificial application possibilities. During photosynthesis, the first steps of the conversion of light energy into chemical energy take place in a pigment-protein complex, called reaction centre (RC). In our experiments photosynthetic reaction centre protein, purified from Rhodobacter sphaeroides R-26 purple bacteria, was bound to porous silicon pillars (PSiP) after the electropolymerisation of aniline onto the surface. This new type of biohybrid material showed remarkable photoactivity in terms of measured photocurrent under light excitation in an electrochemical cell. The photocurrent was found to increase considerably after the addition of ubiquinone (UQ-0), an e<sup>-</sup>-acceptor mediator of the RC. The photoactivity of the complex was found to decrease by the addition of terbutryn, the chemical which inhibits	2022	2	1	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Biocomposite; Photosynthetic reaction centre; Porous silicon; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Porins; Porosity; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Silicon	Hajdu	Kata
34709696	10.1111/tpj.15552	Redesigning the photosynthetic light reactions to enhance photosynthesis - the PhotoRedesign consortium.	In this Perspective article, we describe the visions of the PhotoRedesign consortium funded by the European Research Council of how to enhance photosynthesis. The light reactions of photosynthesis in individual phototrophic species use only a fraction of the solar spectrum, and high light intensities can impair and even damage the process. In consequence, expanding the solar spectrum and enhancing the overall energy capacity of the process, while developing resilience to stresses imposed by high light intensities, could have a strong positive impact on food and energy production. So far, the complexity of the photosynthetic machinery has largely prevented improvements by conventional approaches. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop concepts to redesign the light-harvesting and photochemical capacity of photosynthesis, as well as to establish new model systems and toolkits for the next generation of photosynthesis researchers. The overall objective of PhotoRedesign is to reconf	2022	1	31	Plant J	The Plant journal : for cell and molecular biology	Rhodobacter; Synechocystis; Arabidopsis; adaptive laboratory evolution; assembly; evolution; genetic engineering; photosynthesis; photosystem; synthetic biology; Arabidopsis; Directed Molecular Evolution; Light; Photosynthesis; Photosystem I Protein Complex; Photosystem II Protein Complex; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Synechocystis; Synthetic Biology	Hitchcock	Andrew
34699186	10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00576	Cryo-EM Structure of the <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Light-Harvesting..2 Complex at 2.1 ...	Light-harvesting 2 (LH2) antenna complexes augment the collection of solar energy in many phototrophic bacteria. Despite its frequent role as a model for such complexes, there has been no three-dimensional (3D) structure available for the LH2 from the purple phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We used cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to determine the 2.1 .. resolution structure of this LH2 antenna, which is a cylindrical assembly of nine .... heterodimer subunits, each of which binds three bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl) molecules and one carotenoid. The high resolution of this structure reveals all of the interpigment and pigment-protein interactions that promote the assembly and energy-transfer properties of this complex. Near the cytoplasmic face of the complex there is a ring of nine BChls, which absorb maximally at 800 nm and are designated as B800; each B800 is coordinated by the N-terminal carboxymethionine of LH2-.., part of a network of interactions with nearby re	2021	12	28	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophyll A; Carotenoids; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
34668288	10.1111/1462-2920.15818	A major checkpoint for protein expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides during heat stress response occurs at the level of translation.	Temperature above the physiological optimum is a stress condition frequently faced by bacteria in their natural environments. Here, we were interested in the correlation between levels of RNA and protein under heat stress. Changes in RNA and protein levels were documented in cultures of Rhodobacter sphaeroides using RNA sequencing, quantitative mass spectrometry, western blot analysis, in vivo [<sup>35</sup> S] methionine-labelling and plasmid-borne reporter fusions. Changes in the transcriptome were extensive. Strikingly, the proteome remained unchanged except for very few proteins. Examples include a heat shock protein, a DUF1127 protein of unknown function and sigma factor proteins from leaderless transcripts. Insight from this study indicates that R. sphaeroides responds to heat stress by producing a broad range of transcripts while simultaneously preventing translation from nearly all of them, and that this selective production of protein depends on the untranslated region of the 	2022	3	17	Environ Microbiol	Environmental microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heat-Shock Response; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor	McIntosh	Matthew
34622934	10.1042/BCJ20210696	Cryo-EM structure of the dimeric Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC-LH1 core complex at 2.9.....: the structural basis for dimerisation.	The dimeric reaction centre light-harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) core complex of Rhodobacter sphaeroides converts absorbed light energy to a charge separation, and then it reduces a quinone electron and proton acceptor to a quinol. The angle between the two monomers imposes a bent configuration on the dimer complex, which exerts a major influence on the curvature of the membrane vesicles, known as chromatophores, where the light-driven photosynthetic reactions take place. To investigate the dimerisation interface between two RC-LH1 monomers, we determined the cryogenic electron microscopy structure of the dimeric complex at 2.9..... resolution. The structure shows that each monomer consists of a central RC partly enclosed by a 14-subunit LH1 ring held in an open state by PufX and protein-Y polypeptides, thus enabling quinones to enter and leave the complex. Two monomers are brought together through N-terminal interactions between PufX polypeptides on the cytoplasmic side of the complex, augment	2021	12	28	Biochem J	The Biochemical journal	bacteriochlorophylls; carotenoids; light harvesting; photosynthesis; reaction centre; transmembrane proteins; Bacterial Proteins; Dimerization; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Molecular Structure; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
34590677	10.1042/BCJ20210631	Cryo-EM structure of the monomeric Rhodobacter sphaeroides RC-LH1 core complex at 2.5......	Reaction centre light-harvesting 1 (RC-LH1) complexes are the essential components of bacterial photosynthesis. The membrane-intrinsic LH1 complex absorbs light and the energy migrates to an enclosed RC where a succession of electron and proton transfers conserves the energy as a quinol, which is exported to the cytochrome bc1 complex. In some RC-LH1 variants quinols can diffuse through small pores in a fully circular, 16-subunit LH1 ring, while in others missing LH1 subunits create a gap for quinol export. We used cryogenic electron microscopy to obtain a 2.5..... resolution structure of one such RC-LH1, a monomeric complex from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The structure shows that the RC is partly enclosed by a 14-subunit LH1 ring in which each .... heterodimer binds two bacteriochlorophylls and, unusually for currently reported complexes, two carotenoids rather than one. Although the extra carotenoids confer an advantage in terms of photoprotection and light harvesting, they could imped	2021	11	24	Biochem J	The Biochemical journal	bacteriochlorophyll; carotenoid; light harvesting; photosynthesis; quinone; reaction centre; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Binding Sites; Carotenoids; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Gene Expression; Hydroquinones; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Peptides; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical; Protein Conformation, beta-Strand; Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs; Protein Multimerization; Protein Subunits; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qian	Pu
34543948	10.1016/j.micres.2021.126828	TRAP transporter TakP: a key player in the resistance against selenite-induced oxidative stress in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Almost one-third of all proteins require metal ions as an essential component in key biological processes and approximately half of all enzymes are associated with one or more metal ions. The naturally occurring selenium is very toxic at higher levels, but few bacteria can reduce it into the less toxic insoluble elemental selenium. Selenium is required for the synthesis of selenocysteine, an essential residue involved in the active sites of various enzymes. The purple non-sulphur bacteria, Rhodobacter sphaeroidesis demonstrated for its selenite reduction capacity. The exact mechanism of selenite toxicity is unknown but it reacts with glutathione to form selenodiglutathione, producing the highly toxic compounds namely, H2O2and O2<sup>-</sup>. A R. sphaeroidesstrain with mutated takP gene, a member of the TRAP (tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic) family of transporter, was reported to be showing more resistance towards selenite in the growth medium bu	2022	1	5	Microbiol Res	Microbiological research	Metal resistant microbes; Oxidative stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selenium; TRAP transporter; Bacterial Proteins; NAD; NADP; Oxidative Stress; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Selenious Acid; Selenium	Adnan	Fazal
34500552	10.3390/molecules26175120	Carotenoids Do Not Protect Bacteriochlorophylls in Isolated Light-Harvesting LH2 Complexes of Photosynthetic Bacteria from Destructive Interactions with Singlet Oxygen.	The effect of singlet oxygen on light-harvesting (LH) complexes has been studied for a number of sulfur (S<sup>+</sup>) and nonsulfur (S<sup>-</sup>) photosynthetic bacteria. The visible/near-IR absorption spectra of the standard LH2 complexes (B800-850) of Allochromatium (Alc.) vinosum (S<sup>+</sup>), Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides (S<sup>-</sup>), Rhodoblastus (Rbl.) acidophilus (S<sup>-</sup>), and Rhodopseudomonas (Rps.) palustris (S<sup>-</sup>), two types LH2/LH3 (B800-850 and B800-830) of Thiorhodospira (T.) sibirica (S<sup>+</sup>), and an unusual LH2 complex (B800-827) of Marichromatium (Mch.) purpuratum (S<sup>+</sup>) or the LH1 complex from Rhodospirillum (Rsp.) rubrum (S<sup>-</sup>) were measured in aqueous buffer suspensions in the presence of singlet oxygen generated by the illumination of the dye Rose Bengal (RB). The conte	2021	9	23	Molecules	Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	bacteriochlorophyll; carotenoid; generation of singlet oxygen by carotenoids; light-harvesting complex LH2; oxidation; purple photosynthetic bacteria; singlet oxygen; Bacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Cytoplasm; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Oxidation-Reduction; Singlet Oxygen	Makhneva	Zoya K
34460261	10.1021/acs.jpcb.1c05789	Hydrostatic High-Pressure-Induced Denaturation of LH2 Membrane Proteins.	The denaturation of globular proteins by high pressure is frequently associated with the release of internal voids and/or the exposure of the hydrophobic protein interior to a polar aqueous solvent. Similar evidence with respect to membrane proteins is not available. Here, we investigate the impact of hydrostatic pressures reaching 12 kbar on light-harvesting 2 integral membrane complexes of purple photosynthetic bacteria using two types of innate chromophores in separate strategic locations: bacteriochlorophyll-a in the hydrophobic interior and tryptophan at both protein-solvent interfacial gateways to internal voids. The complexes from mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides with low resilience against pressure were considered in parallel with the naturally robust complexes of Thermochromatium tepidum. In the former case, a firm correlation was established between the abrupt blue shift of the bacteriochlorophyll-a exciton absorption, a known indicator of the breakage of tertiary	2021	10	19	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacterial Proteins; Chromatiaceae; Hydrostatic Pressure; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Membrane Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Timpmann	K..u
34448581	10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00462	Photosynthetic Growth and Energy Conversion in an Engineered Phototroph Containing <i>Thermochromatium tepidum</i> Light-Harvesting Complex 1 and the <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Reaction Center Complex.	Light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1) of the thermophilic purple sulfur bacterium Thermochromatium tepidum can be expressed in the purple non-sulfur bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and forms a functional RC-LH1 complex with the native Rba. sphaeroides reaction center (Nagashima, K. V. P., et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 2017, 114, 10906-10911). Although there is a large uphill energy gap between Tch. tepidum LH1 and the Rba. sphaeroides RC in this chimeric complex, it has been shown that light energy can be transferred, consistent with that seen in the native Rba. sphaeroides RC-LH1 complex. In this study, the contribution of this chimeric complex to growth and photosynthetic energy conversion in the hybrid organism was quantified. The mutant synthesizing this chimeric complex was grown phototrophically under 940 nm light-emitting diode (LED) light preferentially absorbed by Tch. tepidum LH1 and showed faster growth at low int	2021	12	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Chromatiaceae; Electron Transport; Energy Metabolism; Genetic Engineering; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Nagashima	Kenji V P
34442833	10.3390/microorganisms9081754	Comparative Genome Analysis Provides Molecular Evidence for Reclassification of the Photosynthetic Bacterium <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> EBL0706 as a Strain of <i>Luteovulum azotoforman</i><i>s</i>.	In this study, we conducted a genome-wide comparative analysis of a former Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain EBL0706, which is now recorded as Luteovulum sphaeroides EBL0706. The genome of EBL0706 was compared with that of Luteovulum azotoformans ATCC 17025, Luteovulum azotoformans KA25, and Luteovulum sphaeroides 2.4.1. The average nucleotide identity (ANI), tetra nucleotide signatures (Tetra), digital DNA-DNA hybridization (dDDH) values, comparative genome, and phylogenetic analysis proposed that EBL0706 is a strain of Luteovulum azotoformans. Functional annotations identified a total of 4034 protein-coding genes in the genome of EBL0706, including a complete photosynthetic gene cluster. This study provides genomic molecular verification for the strain EBL0706 to be reclassified to Luteovulum azotoformans.	2021	8	31	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Luteovulum azotoformans; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; genome comparison; phylogenetic; reclassification	Wang	Haoyu
34328746	10.1021/acs.jpcb.1c03978	Antagonistic Effects of Point Mutations on Charge Recombination and a New View of Primary Charge Separation in Photosynthetic Proteins.	Light-induced electron-transfer reactions were investigated in wild-type and three mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers with the secondary electron acceptor (ubiquinone QA) either removed or permanently reduced. Under such conditions, charge separation between the primary electron donor (bacteriochlorophyll dimer, P) and the electron acceptor (bacteriopheophytin, HA) was followed by P<sup>+</sup>HA<sup>-</sup> ... PHA charge recombination. Two reaction centers were used that had different single amino-acid mutations that brought about either a 3-fold acceleration in charge recombination compared to that in the wild-type protein, or a 3-fold deceleration. In a third mutant in which the two single amino-acid mutations were combined, charge recombination was similar to that in the wild type. In all cases, data from transient absorption measurements were analyzed using similar models. The modeling included the energetic relaxati	2021	10	19	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Point Mutation; Recombination, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Dubas	K
34309398	10.1128/JB.00372-21	Modulation of the Enzymatic Activity of the Flagellar Lytic Transglycosylase SltF by Rod Components and the Scaffolding Protein FlgJ in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Macromolecular cell-envelope-spanning structures such as the bacterial flagellum must traverse the cell wall. Lytic transglycosylase enzymes are capable of enlarging gaps in the peptidoglycan meshwork to allow the efficient assembly of supramolecular complexes. In the periplasmic space, the assembly of the flagellar rod requires the scaffold protein FlgJ, which includes a muramidase domain in the canonical models Salmonella enterica and Escherichia coli. In contrast, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, FlgJ and the dedicated flagellar lytic transglycosylase SltF are separate entities that interact in the periplasm. In this study, we show that sltF is expressed, along with the genes encoding the early components of the flagellar hierarchy that include the hook-basal body proteins, making SltF available during the rod assembly. Protein-protein interaction experiments demonstrated that SltF interacts with the rod proteins FliE, FlgB, FlgC, FlgF, and FlgG through its C-terminal region. A de	2021	12	22	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; SltF; flagellar biogenesis; flagellar rod; lytic transglycosylase; Bacterial Proteins; Flagella; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Garc..a-Ramos	Mariela
34301911	10.1073/pnas.2103203118	Mechanism of the formation of proton transfer pathways in photosynthetic reaction centers.	In photosynthetic reaction centers from purple bacteria (PbRCs) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the secondary quinone QB accepts two electrons and two protons via electron-coupled proton transfer (PT). Here, we identify PT pathways that proceed toward the QB binding site, using a quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical approach. As the first electron is transferred to QB, the formation of the Grotthuss-like pre-PT H-bond network is observed along Asp-L213, Ser-L223, and the distal QB carbonyl O site. As the second electron is transferred, the formation of a low-barrier H-bond is observed between His-L190 at Fe and the proximal QB carbonyl O site, which facilitates the second PT. As QBH2 leaves PbRC, a chain of water molecules connects protonated Glu-L212 and deprotonated His-L190 forms, which serves as a pathway for the His-L190 reprotonation. The findings of the second pathway, which does not involve Glu	2021	12	6	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	artificial photosynthesis; conformational gating; low-barrier hydrogen bond; photosystem II; proton-coupled electron transfer; Binding Sites; Electron Transport; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protons; Quinones; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sugo	Yu
34299177	10.3390/ijms22147557	A Complex Network of Sigma Factors and sRNA StsR Regulates Stress Responses in <i>R. sphaeroides</i>.	Adaptation of bacteria to a changing environment is often accompanied by remodeling of the transcriptome. In the facultative phototroph Rhodobacter sphaeroides the alternative sigma factors RpoE, RpoHI and RpoHII play an important role in a variety of stress responses, including heat, oxidative stress and nutrient limitation. Photooxidative stress caused by the simultaneous presence of chlorophylls, light and oxygen is a special challenge for phototrophic organisms. Like alternative sigma factors, several non-coding sRNAs have important roles in the defense against photooxidative stress. RNAseq-based transcriptome data pointed to an influence of the stationary phase-induced StsR sRNA on levels of mRNAs and sRNAs with a role in the photooxidative stress response. Furthermore, StsR also affects expression of photosynthesis genes and of genes for regulators of photosynthesis genes. In vivo and in vitro interaction studies revealed that StsR, that is under control of the RpoHI and R	2021	7	30	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	alternative sigma factor; anoxygenic photosynthesis; photooxidative stress; regulatory networks; sRNAs; transcriptome; Bacterial Proteins; Oxidative Stress; Oxygen; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Transcriptome	Eisenhardt	Katrin M H
34213754	10.1007/s43630-021-00069-z	Temperature dependence of nanosecond charge recombination in mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction centers: modelling of the protein dynamics.	We investigated the influence of a range of factors-temperature, redox midpoint potential of an electron carrier, and protein dynamics-on nanosecond electron transfer within a protein. The model reaction was back electron transfer from a bacteriopheophytin anion, HA<sup>-</sup>, to an oxidized primary electron donor, P<sup>+</sup>, in a wild type Rhodobacter sphaeroides reaction center (RC) with a permanently reduced secondary electron acceptor (quinone, QA<sup>-</sup>). Also used were two modified RCs with single amino acid mutations near the monomeric bacteriochlorophyll, BA, located between P and HA. Both mutant RCs showed significant slowing down of this back electron transfer reaction with decreasing temperature, similar to that observed with the wild type RC, but contrasting with a number of single point mutant RCs studied previously. The observed similarities and differences are explained in the framework of a (P<sup>+</sup>BA</su	2021	8	4	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Charge recombination; Photosynthetic reaction centers; Protein dynamics; Purple bacteria; Transient absorption; Models, Biological; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Thermodynamics; Time Factors	Gibasiewicz	Krzysztof
34152199	10.1128/JB.00210-21	Rhodobacter sphaeroides CarD Negatively Regulates Its Own Promoter.	Bioinformatic analysis showed previously that a majority of promoters in the photoheterotrophic alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides lack the thymine at the last position of the -10 element (-7T), a base that is very highly conserved in promoters in bacteria other than alphaproteobacteria. The absence of -7T was correlated with low promoter activity using purified R. sphaeroides RNA polymerase (RNAP), but the transcription factor CarD compensated by activating almost all promoters lacking -7T tested in vitro, including rRNA promoters. Here, we show that a previously uncharacterized R. sphaeroides promoter, the promoter for carD itself, has high basal activity relative to other tested R. sphaeroides promoters despite lacking -7T, and its activity is inhibited rather than activated by CarD. This high basal activity is dependent on a consensus-extended -10 element (TGn) and specific features in the spacer immediately upstream of the extended -10 element. CarD negativ	2021	10	20	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	CarD; R. sphaeroides promoters; negative autoregulation; promoter escape; transcription factor; transcription inhibition; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcription Factors; Transcription, Genetic	Henry	Kemardo K
34146595	10.1016/j.jmb.2021.167107	A Light-Oxygen-Voltage Receptor Integrates Light and Temperature.	Sensory photoreceptors enable organisms to adjust their physiology, behavior, and development in response to light, generally with spatiotemporal acuity and reversibility. These traits underlie the use of photoreceptors as genetically encoded actuators to alter by light the state and properties of heterologous organisms. Subsumed as optogenetics, pertinent approaches enable regulating diverse cellular processes, not least gene expression. Here, we controlled the widely used Tet repressor by coupling to light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) modules that either homodimerize or dissociate under blue light. Repression could thus be elevated or relieved, and consequently protein expression was modulated by light. Strikingly, the homodimeric RsLOV module from Rhodobacter sphaeroides not only dissociated under light but intrinsically reacted to temperature. The limited light responses of wild-type RsLOV at 37....C were enhanced in two variants that exhibited closely similar photochemistry and structure.	2021	9	20	J Mol Biol	Journal of molecular biology	Tet repressor; crystal structure; optogenetics; sensory photoreceptor; signal transduction; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Models, Molecular; Optogenetics; Oxygen; Protein Domains; Protein Stability; Protein Structure, Secondary; Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Dietler	Julia
34142688	10.1039/d1cp00447f	QM calculations predict the energetics and infrared spectra of transient glutamine isomers in LOV photoreceptors.	Photosensory receptors containing the flavin-binding light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) domain are modular proteins that fulfil a variety of biological functions ranging from gene expression to phototropism. The LOV photocycle is initiated by blue-light and involves a cascade of intermediate species, including an electronically excited triplet state, that leads to covalent bond formation between the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) chromophore and a nearby cysteine residue. Subsequent conformational changes in the polypeptide chain arise due to the remodelling of the hydrogen bond network in the cofactor binding pocket, whereby a conserved glutamine residue plays a key role in coupling FMN photochemistry with LOV photobiology. Although the dark-to-light transition of LOV photosensors has been previously addressed by spectroscopy and computational approaches, the mechanistic basis of the underlying reactions is still not well understood. Here we present a detailed computational study of three distin	2021	8	9	Phys Chem Chem Phys	Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	Amino Acid Sequence; Avena; Cysteine; Flavin Mononucleotide; Glutamine; Hydrogen Bonding; Isomerism; Models, Molecular; Normal Distribution; Photochemical Processes; Phototropins; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Sphingomonadaceae; Structure-Activity Relationship; Thermodynamics	Andrikopoulos	Prokopis C
34138452	10.1007/s11120-021-00855-x	Pigment-modified reaction centers of Chloroflexus aurantiacus: chemical exchange of bacteriopheophytins with plant-type pheophytins.	The pigment composition of isolated reaction centers (RCs) of the green filamentous bacterium Chloroflexus (Cfl.) aurantiacus was changed by chemical exchange of native bacteriopheophytin a (BPheo) molecules with externally added pheophytin a (Pheo) or [3-acetyl]-Pheo upon incubation of RC/pheophytin mixtures at room temperature and 45....C. The modified RCs were characterized by Vis/NIR absorption spectroscopy, and the effect of pigment exchange on RC photochemical activity was assessed by measuring the photoaccumulation of the reduced pigment at the binding site HA. It is shown that both pheophytins can be exchanged into the HA site instead of BPheo by incubation at room temperature. While the newly introduced Pheo molecule is not active in electron transfer, the [3-acetyl]-Pheo molecule is able to replace functionally the photoreducible HA BPheo molecule with the formation of the [3-acetyl]-Pheo<sup>-</sup> radical anion instead of the BPheo<sup>-</s	2021	11	16	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Bacteriopheophytins; Chloroflexus aurantiacus; Pigment replacement; Plant-type pheophytins; Reaction centers; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Chloroflexus; Electron Transport; Pheophytins; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins	Zabelin	Alexey A
34134043	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.131031	Highly efficient and sustainable removal of Cr (VI) in aqueous solutions by photosynthetic bacteria supplemented with phosphor salts.	Photosynthetic bacteria have flexible metabolisms and strong environmental adaptability, and require cheap, but plentiful, energy supplements, which all enable their use in Cr(VI)-remediation. In this study, the effects of culture conditions on the total Cr removal rate were investigated for a newly identified strain of Rhodobacter sphaeroides SC01. The subcellular distribution and Cr(VI) reduction ability of four different cellular fractions were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Experiments indicated that the optimal culture conditions for total Cr removal included a culture temperature of 35....C, pH of 7.20, an NaCl concentration of 5..g..L<sup>-1</sup>, a light intensity of 4000 lx, and an initial cell concentration (OD680) of 0.15. In addition, most Cr was found in the cell membrane in the form of Cr (III) after reduction, while cell membranes had the highest Cr(VI) reduction rate (99%) compared to other cellular components	2021	9	9	Chemosphere	Chemosphere	Bioprecipitation; Chromium phosphate hydrate; Cr(VI); Photosynthetic bacteria; Sodium pyrophosphate; Bacteria; Chromium; Dietary Supplements; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Salts; Waste Water; Water Pollutants, Chemical	Su	Yan-Qiu
34125915	10.1093/nar/gkab491	sRNA-mediated RNA processing regulates bacterial cell division.	Tight control of cell division is essential for survival of most organisms. For prokaryotes, the regulatory mechanisms involved in the control of cell division are mostly unknown. We show that the small non-coding sRNA StsR has an important role in controlling cell division and growth in the alpha-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. StsR is strongly induced by stress conditions and in stationary phase by the alternative sigma factors RpoHI/HII, thereby providing a regulatory link between cell division and environmental cues. Compared to the wild type, a mutant lacking StsR enters stationary phase later and more rapidly resumes growth after stationary phase. A target of StsR is UpsM, the most abundant sRNA in the exponential phase. It is derived from partial transcriptional termination within the 5' untranslated region of the mRNA of the division and cell wall (dcw) gene cluster. StsR binds to UpsM as well as to the 5' UTR of the dcw mRNA and the sRNA-sRNA and sRNA-mRNA interaction	2021	7	28	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Base Pairing; Cell Division; Endoribonucleases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional; RNA, Messenger; RNA, Small Untranslated; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sigma Factor; Stress, Physiological	Gr..tzner	Julian
34120062	10.1016/j.biortech.2021.125364	Microbial food from light, carbon dioxide and hydrogen gas: Kinetic, stoichiometric and nutritional potential of three purple bacteria.	The urgency for a protein transition towards more sustainable solutions is one of the major societal challenges. Microbial protein is one of the alternative routes, in which land- and fossil-free production should be targeted. The photohydrogenotrophic growth of purple bacteria, which builds on the H2- and CO2-economy, is unexplored for its microbial protein potential. The three tested species (Rhodobacter capsulatus, Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodopseudomonas palustris) obtained promising growth rates (2.3-2.7 d<sup>-1</sup> at 28..C) and protein productivities (0.09-0.12..g protein L<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>), rendering them likely faster and more productive than microalgae. The achieved protein yields (2.6-2.9..g protein g<sup>-1</sup> H2) transcended the ones of aerobic hydrogen oxidizing bacteria. Furthermore, all species provided full dietary protein matches for humans and their fatty acid content was dominated by vaccenic acid (82-86%). Give	2021	7	28	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Essential amino acids; Hydrogen economy; Photoautotrophy; Purple non-sulphur bacteria; Single-cell protein; Carbon Dioxide; Humans; Hydrogen; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Rhodopseudomonas	Spanoghe	Janne
34113349	10.3389/fimmu.2021.675909	<i>Rhodobacter azotoformans</i> LPS (RAP99-LPS) Is a TLR4 Agonist That Inhibits Lung Metastasis and Enhances TLR3-Mediated Chemokine Expression.	The lipopolysaccharides (LPSs) of Rhodobacter are reported to be TLR4 antagonists. Accordingly, the extract of Rhodobacter azotoformans (RAP99) is used as a health supplement for humans and animals in Japan to regulate immune responses in vivo. We previously analyzed the LPS structure of RAP99 (RAP99-LPS) and found it is different from that of E. coli-LPS but similar to lipid A from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RSLA), a known antagonist of TLR4, with both having three C14 fatty acyl groups, two C10 fatty acyl groups, and two phosphates. Here we show that RAP99-LPS has an immune stimulatory activity and acts as a TLR4 agonist. Pretreatment of RAP99-LPS suppressed E. coli-LPS-mediated weight loss, suggesting it is an antagonist against E. coli-LPS like other LPS isolated from Rhodobacter. However, injections of RAP99-LPS caused splenomegaly and increased immune cell numbers in C57BL/6 mice but not in C3H/HeJ mice, suggesting that RAP99-	2021	10	21	Front Immunol	Frontiers in immunology	NF-kB; RAP99-LPS; STAT3; TLR4; agonist; Animals; Chemokines; Lipopolysaccharides; Lung Neoplasms; Male; Mice; Mice, Inbred C3H; Mice, Inbred C57BL; NF-kappa B; Rhodobacter; STAT3 Transcription Factor; Toll-Like Receptor 3; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Murakami	Kaoru
34090098	10.1016/j.biortech.2021.125340	Developing Rhodobacter sphaeroides for cathodic biopolymer production.	In this work, Rhodobacter sphaeroides was identified as a potential cathodic production strain for photoautotrophic production processes. First, a stable cultivation in a bioelectrochemical system (BES) was established under conditions in which hydrogen produced by a poised cathode served as an electron donor. It was shown that both the introduction of a plasmid vector and exposure to the corresponding antibiotic selection pressure caused a strong improvement in both cathodic biofilm formation and electrochemical properties. A quantitative proteomic analysis identified key players in the molecular adaptation to biofilm growth on the cathodic surface. Furthermore, biofilm formation kinetics were quantified by optical coherence tomography measurements, which showed a strong tendency for biofilm formation together with a robust biofilm architecture. A media switch to N2-limited conditions resulted in increased cathodic poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) accumulation, suggesting R. s	2021	7	15	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Bioelectrochemical system; Biofilm kinetics; PHB production; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Biopolymers; Electrodes; Hydrogen; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Schmid	Ferdinand
34081477	10.1021/acs.jpclett.1c01407	High-Efficiency Excitation Energy Transfer in Biohybrid Quantum Dot-Bacterial Reaction Center Nanoconjugates.	Reaction centers (RCs) are the pivotal component of natural photosystems, converting solar energy into the potential difference between separated electrons and holes that is used to power much of biology. RCs from anoxygenic purple photosynthetic bacteria such as Rhodobacter sphaeroides only weakly absorb much of the visible region of the solar spectrum, which limits their overall light-harvesting capacity. For in vitro applications such as biohybrid photodevices, this deficiency can be addressed by effectively coupling RCs with synthetic light-harvesting materials. Here, we studied the time scale and efficiency of F..rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) in a nanoconjugate assembled from a synthetic quantum dot (QD) antenna and a tailored RC engineered to be fluorescent. Time-correlated single-photon counting spectroscopy of biohybrid conjugates enabled the direct determination of FRET from QDs to attached RCs on a time scale of 26.6 .. 0.1 ns and with a high efficiency	2021	7	2	J Phys Chem Lett	The journal of physical chemistry letters	Energy Transfer; Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer; Nanoconjugates; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Quantum Dots; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Solar Energy	Amoruso	Giordano
34001115	10.1186/s12934-021-01591-6	Biosynthesis of pinene in purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria.	Pinene is a monoterpene, that is used in the manufacture of fragrances, insecticide, fine chemicals, and renewable fuels. Production of pinene by metabolic-engineered microorganisms is a sustainable method. Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria belong to photosynthetic chassis that are widely used to synthesize natural chemicals. To date, researches on the synthesis of pinene by purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria has not been reported, leaving the potential of purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria synthesizing pinene unexplored. Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain was applied as a model and engineered to express the fusion protein of heterologous geranyl diphosphate synthase (GPPS) and pinene synthase (PS), hence achieving pinene production. The reaction condition of pinene production was optimized and 97.51 ..g/L of pinene was yielded. Then, genes of 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase, 1-deoxy-D-xylulose 5-phosphate reductoisomerase and isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase	2021	10	14	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Heterologous; Metabolic-engineered; Pinene production; Purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria; Biosynthetic Pathways; Metabolic Engineering; Monoterpenes; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wu	Xiaomin
33987170	10.3389/fchem.2021.669452	Quantification of Local Electric Field Changes at the Active Site of Cytochrome <i>c</i> Oxidase by Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroelectrochemical Titrations.	Cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) is a transmembrane protein complex that reduces molecular oxygen to water while translocating protons across the mitochondrial membrane. Changes in the redox states of its cofactors trigger both O2 reduction and vectorial proton transfer, which includes a proton-loading site, yet unidentified. In this work, we exploited carbon monoxide (CO) as a vibrational Stark effect (VSE) probe at the binuclear center of CcO from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. The CO stretching frequency was monitored as a function of the electrical potential, using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) absorption spectroelectrochemistry. We observed three different redox states (R4CO, R2CO, and O), determined their midpoint potential, and compared the resulting electric field to electrostatic calculations. A change in the local electric field strength of +2.9 MV/cm was derived, which was induced by the redox transition from R4	2021	5	16	Front Chem	Frontiers in chemistry	carbon monoxide; electron transfer; electrostatic potential; infrared spectroscopy; proton transfer; redox chemistry; vibrational Stark effect	Baserga	Federico
33941072	10.1134/S000629792104012X	Effect of Detergents and Osmolytes on Thermal Stability of Native and Mutant Rhodobacter sphaeroides Reaction Centers.	Photosynthetic reaction center (RC) of the purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is one of the most well-studied transmembrane pigment-protein complexes. It is a relatively stable protein with established conditions for its isolation from membranes, purification, and storage. However, it has been shown that some amino acid substitutions can affect stability of the RC, which results in a decrease of the RCs yield during its isolation and purification, disturbs spectral properties of the RCs during storage, and can lead to sample heterogeneity. To optimize conditions for studying mutant RCs, the effect of various detergents and osmolytes on thermal stability of the complex was examined. It was shown that trehalose and, to a lesser extent, sucrose, maltose, and hydroxyectoin at 1 M concentration slow down thermal denaturation of RCs. Sodium cholate was found to have significant stabilizing effect on the structure of native and genetically modified RCs. The use of sodium cholate as a de	2021	7	14	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; detergents; osmolytes; photosynthetic reaction center; sodium cholate; thermal stability of membrane proteins; trehalose; Amino Acid Substitution; Detergents; Hot Temperature; Maltose; Mutation, Missense; Osmolar Concentration; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Protein Conformation; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sodium Cholate; Sucrose; Trehalose	Fufina	Tatiana Yu
33932366	10.1016/j.bbabio.2021.148433	Identification of a cytochrome bc<sub>1</sub>-aa<sub>3</sub> supercomplex in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Respiration is carried out by a series of membrane-bound complexes in the inner mitochondrial membrane or in the cytoplasmic membrane of bacteria. Increasing evidence shows that these complexes organize into larger supercomplexes. In this work, we identified a supercomplex composed of cytochrome (cyt.) bc1 and aa3-type cyt. c oxidase in Rhodobacter sphaeroides. We purified the supercomplex using a His-tag on either of these complexes. The results from activity assays, native and denaturing PAGE, size exclusion chromatography, electron microscopy, optical absorption spectroscopy and kinetic studies on the purified samples support the formation and coupled quinol oxidation:O2 reduction activity of the cyt. bc1-aa3 supercomplex. The potential role of the membrane-anchored cyt. cy as a component in supercomplexes was also investigated.	2021	9	24	Biochim Biophys Acta Bioenerg	Biochimica et biophysica acta. Bioenergetics	Bioenergetics; Cytochrome bc(1) complex; Electron transfer; Respiratory supercomplex; aa(3)-type cytochrome c oxidase; flow-flash; Cell Membrane; Electron Transport; Electron Transport Complex III; Electron Transport Complex IV; Hydroquinones; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Fedotovskaya	Olga
33928707	10.1111/hel.12812	Heat-killed Helicobacter pylori upregulates NKG2D ligands expression on gastric adenocarcinoma cells via Toll-like receptor 4.	Natural killer (NK) cells are paramount for immunity against infectious agents and tumors. Their cytokine and cytolytic responses can be mediated by natural killer group 2, member D (NKG2D), an activating receptor whose ligands (NKG2DL) expression is induced in conditions of cell stress and malignant transformation. Since sustained expression of NKG2DL MICA is related to lower survival rates in gastric adenocarcinoma patients, and Helicobacter pylori infection contributes to tumorigenesis; we asked whether H...pylori stimulus could promote NKG2DL expression on human gastric adenocarcinoma cells. Heat-killed H...pylori (HKHP) was used to stimulate MKN45 cells before analysis of NKG2DL and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) protein levels by flow cytometry and transcripts by real-time PCR. LPS from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and inhibitory peptide Pepinh MYD were used to inhibit TLR4/MyD88 signaling pathway to assess its participation on NKG2DL expression. NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was measure	2021	9	30	Helicobacter	Helicobacter	Helicobacter pylori; NKG2D ligands; TLR4; gastric adenocarcinoma; natural killer cells; Adenocarcinoma; Helicobacter Infections; Helicobacter pylori; Hot Temperature; Humans; Ligands; NK Cell Lectin-Like Receptor Subfamily K; Stomach Neoplasms; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Hern..ndez	Carolina
33913116	10.1007/s43630-021-00046-6	Effects of low-molecular-weight polyols on the hydration status of the light-harvesting complex 2 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Low-molecular-weight (MW) polyols are organic osmolytes influencing water activity. We have investigated the effects of polyol molecules (glycerol and sorbitol) on the optical and triplet excitation dynamics of light-harvesting complex 2 (LH2) from Rhodobacter (Rba.) sphaeroides in buffer-detergent solutions. The resonance Raman spectroscopy demonstrated that, on increasing glycerol and sorbitol volume fractions ranging from 0 to 80% (v/v) (accompanied by the decreasing water activities), the planar and all-trans conformation of carotenoids (Crts) remained unchanged, and the bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl) Qy absorption intensity decreased. The B850 fluorescence amplitude elevated in the 20-80% v/v sorbitol and 20-40% v/v glycerol solution, but decreased in 80% v/v glycerol solution. The change of <sup>3</sup>[Crt*-BChl] interaction bands caused by <sup>3</sup>Crt*-BChl interaction had no obvious correlation with water activities against polyol volume fractions, which are ratio	2021	5	27	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Glycerol; Hydration; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sorbitol; Triplet excited state	Shi	Ying
33860878	10.1007/s12010-021-03571-3	Plasmid-Free System and Modular Design for Efficient 5-Aminolevulinic Acid Production by Engineered Escherichia coli.	5-Aminolevulinic acid (ALA) is an essential intermediate for many organisms and has been considered for the applications of medical especially in photodynamic therapy of cancer recently. However, ALA production via chemical approach is complicated; hence, microbial manufacturing has received more attentions. In this study, a modular design to simultaneously express ALA synthase from Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RshemA), a non-specific ALA exporter (RhtA), and chaperones was first developed and discussed. The ALA production was significantly increased by coexpressing RhtA and RshemA. Besides, ALA was enhanced by the cofactor pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) which was supplied by expressing genes of pdxK and pdxY or direct addition. However, inclusion bodies of RshemA served as an obstacle; thus, chaperones DnaK and GroELS were introduced to reform the conformation of proteins and successfully improved ALA production. Finally, a plasmid-free strain RrGI, as the robust chassis, was established and a	2021	9	29	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	5-Aminolevulinic acid; ALA synthase; Escherichia coli; GroELS chaperones; Plasmid-free; Pyridoxal 5...-phosphate; 5-Aminolevulinate Synthetase; Aminolevulinic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Escherichia coli; Metabolic Engineering; Microorganisms, Genetically-Modified; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shih	I-Tai
33835797	10.1021/acs.biochem.1c00137	In Situ, Protein-Mediated Generation of a Photochemically Active Chlorophyll Analogue in a Mutant Bacterial Photosynthetic Reaction Center.	All possible natural amino acids have been substituted for the native LeuL185 positioned near the B-side bacteriopheophytin (HB) in the bacterial reaction center (RC) from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Additional mutations that enhance electron transfer to the normally inactive B-side cofactors are present. Approximately half of the isolated RCs with Glu at L185 contain a magnesium chlorin (CB) in place of HB. The chlorin is not the common BChl a oxidation product 3-desvinyl-3-acetyl chlorophyll a with a C-C bond in ring D and a C...C bond in ring B but has properties consistent with reversal of these bond orders, giving 17,18-didehydro BChl a. In such RCs, charge-separated state P<sup>+</sup>CB<sup>-</sup> forms in ...5% yield. The other half of the GluL185-containing RCs have a bacteriochlorophyll a (BChl a) denoted ..B in place of HB. Residues His, Asp, Asn, and Gln at L185 yield R	2021	9	9	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Chlorophyll; Mutation; Oxidation-Reduction; Photochemical Processes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Magdaong	Nikki Cecil M
33818091	10.1021/acs.jpcb.1c00719	Lack of Excitation Energy Transfer from the Bacteriochlorophyll Soret Band to Carotenoids in Photosynthetic Complexes of Purple Bacteria.	The excitation energy transfer (EET) from the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) Soret band to the second excited state(s) (S2) of carotenoids in pigment-protein complexes of purple bacteria was investigated. The efficiency of EET was determined, based on fluorescence excitation and absorption spectra of chromatophores, peripheral light-harvesting complexes (LH2), core complexes (LH1-RC), and pigments in solution. Carotenoid-containing and carotenoid-less samples were compared: LH1-RC and LH2 from Allochromatium minutissimum, Ectothiorhodospira haloalkaliphila, and chromatophores from Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Rhodospirillum rubrum wild type and carotenoid-free strains R-26 and G9. BChl-to-carotenoid EET was absent, or its efficiency was less than the accuracy of the measurements of ...5%. Quantum chemical calculations support the experimental results: The transition dipole moments of spatially close carotenoid/BChl pairs were found to be nearly orthogo	2021	5	14	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Bacteriochlorophylls; Carotenoids; Chromatiaceae; Ectothiorhodospira; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Razjivin	Andrei
33813825	10.1021/acs.jafc.0c08158	Manipulation of the Regulatory Genes <i>ppsR</i> and <i>prrA</i> in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> Enhances Lycopene Production.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a non-sulfur purple bacterium with great metabolic versatility, capable of producing a variety of valuable compounds that include carotenoids and CoQ10. In order to enhance lycopene production, we deleted the photosynthetic gene cluster repressor ppsR from a lycopene-producing Rb. sphaeroides strain (RL1) constructed in a previous study to break the control of carotenoid synthesis by the oxygen level. Also, lycopene production was further increased by overexpression of the activator prrA. The superior lycopene producer DppsR/OprrA thus obtained had a high growth rate and a lycopene production of 150.15 mg/L with a yield of 21.45 mg/g dry cell weight (DCW) under high oxygen conditions; these values were ...6.85-fold higher than those of RL1 (19.13 mg/L; 3.32 mg/g DCW). Our findings indicate that elimination of oxygen repression led to more efficient lycopene production by DppsR/OprrA and that its increased productivity un	2021	5	14	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	PpsR; PrrA; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; lycopene; photosynthetic gene cluster; Bacterial Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Regulator; Lycopene; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Qu	Yuling
33812923	10.1016/j.jip.2021.107585	Dietary supplementation with probiotic Rhodobacter sphaeroides SS15 extract to control acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND)-causing vibrio parahaemolyticus in cultivated white shrimp.	Cultivation of Penaeus vannamei (Pacific white shrimp) is faced with the serious problem of acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND), caused by Vibrio parahaemolyticus that carries plasmids containing binary toxin genes. The disease is typically moderated by the use of antibiotics. To investigate the control of AHPND and maintenance of water quality without the use of antibiotics, the supplementation of shrimp feed with anti-vibrio compounds from a crude extract of probiotic Rhodobacter sphaeroides SS15 was evaluated. The experimental design comprised four treatments: two that were challenged with AHPND-causing V. parahaemolyticus SR2 at a density of 6.0......10<sup>5</sup> cells mL<sup>-1</sup> and two that were not challenged. The unchallenged groups comprised a control group that received commercial feed only (CF) and a group that received CF supplemented with 0.27% (w/w) of the extract of R. sphaeroides SS15 (modified CF: MCF). The treatments challenged with V. parahaemolyti	2021	12	15	J Invertebr Pathol	Journal of invertebrate pathology	Feed additive; Growth performance; Purple nonsulfur bacteria; Trained immunity; Vibrio spp.; Water quality; Animal Feed; Animals; Diet; Dietary Supplements; Hepatopancreas; Penaeidae; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Vibrio parahaemolyticus	Torpee	Salwa
33797113	10.1002/bab.2151	Photofermentative biohydrogen generation from organic acids by Rhodobacter sphaeroides O.U.001: Computational fluid dynamics modeling of hydrodynamics and temperature.	Hydrogen gas is a clean-burning fuel suitable for powering public vehicles. Hydrogen fuel has the highest energy density (143 MJ kg<sup>-1</sup> ). This research paper emphasizes three-dimensional hydrodynamics and temperature distribution during photobiohydrogen generation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides strain O.U.001 in a triple-jacketed 1 L photobioreactor (PBR). The fermentation broth has turbulent flow conditions and light gradients among various layers, which affect the light conversion efficiency of the PBR. From the carbon source (malic acid), various organic acids are produced within fermentation (lactate, acetate, and formate). Modeling and simulation studies by computational fluid dynamics confirmed uniform fluid dynamics and heat transfer throughout the annular PBR. The modified Gompertz equation gave good simulated fitting with an experimental value for H2 generation. R. sphaeroides O.U. 001 gave good simulated results for H2 generation with mathematical 	2022	4	21	Biotechnol Appl Biochem	Biotechnology and applied biochemistry	Rhodobacter sphaeroides O.U.001; computational fluid dynamics simulation of hydrodynamics; kinetics of H2 generation; optimization of photosynthetic H2 formation; particle tracing; Fermentation; Hydrodynamics; Hydrogen; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature	Basak	Nitai
33752351	10.1063/5.0033805	Dynamic band-shift signal in two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy: A case of bacterial reaction center.	Optical nonlinear spectroscopies carry a high amount of information about the systems under investigation; however, as they report polarization signals, the resulting spectra are often congested and difficult to interpret. To recover the landscape of energy states and physical processes such as energy and electron transfer, a clear interpretation of the nonlinear signals is prerequisite. Here, we focus on the interpretation of the electrochromic band-shift signal, which is generated when an internal electric field is established in the system following optical excitation. Whereas the derivative shape of the band-shift signal is well understood in transient absorption spectroscopy, its emergence in two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy (2DES) has not been discussed. In this work, we employed 2DES to follow the dynamic band-shift signal in reaction centers of purple bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 77 K. The prominent two-dimensional derivative-shape signal appears with the characte	2021	7	8	J Chem Phys	The Journal of chemical physics	Electrons; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrum Analysis	Bukart..	Egl..
33721272	10.1007/s43630-021-00024-y	Identification of the vibrational marker of tyrosine cation radical using ultrafast transient infrared spectroscopy of flavoprotein systems.	Tryptophan and tyrosine radical intermediates play crucial roles in many biological charge transfer processes. Particularly in flavoprotein photochemistry, short-lived reaction intermediates can be studied by the complementary techniques of ultrafast visible and infrared spectroscopy. The spectral properties of tryptophan radical are well established, and the formation of neutral tyrosine radicals has been observed in many biological processes. However, only recently, the formation of a cation tyrosine radical was observed by transient visible spectroscopy in a few systems. Here, we assigned the infrared vibrational markers of the cationic and neutral tyrosine radical at 1483 and 1502..cm<sup>-1</sup> (in deuterated buffer), respectively, in a variant of the bacterial methyl transferase TrmFO, and in the native glucose oxidase. In addition, we studied a mutant of AppABLUF blue-light sensor domain from Rhodobacter sphaeroides in which only a direct formation of the neutral radical was o	2021	7	12	Photochem Photobiol Sci	Photochemical &amp; photobiological sciences : Official journal of the European Photochemistry Association and the European Society for Photobiology	Bacterial Proteins; Cations; Flavoproteins; Free Radicals; Glucose Oxidase; Methyltransferases; Mutagenesis, Site-Directed; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Recombinant Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrophotometry, Infrared; Tyrosine	Pirisi	Katalin
33706375	10.1093/nar/gkab146	The small DUF1127 protein CcaF1 from Rhodobacter sphaeroides is an RNA-binding protein involved in sRNA maturation and RNA turnover.	Many different protein domains are conserved among numerous species, but their function remains obscure. Proteins with DUF1127 domains number &gt;17 000 in current databases, but a biological function has not yet been assigned to any of them. They are mostly found in alpha- and gammaproteobacteria, some of them plant and animal pathogens, symbionts or species used in industrial applications. Bioinformatic analyses revealed similarity of the DUF1127 domain of bacterial proteins to the RNA binding domain of eukaryotic Smaug proteins that are involved in RNA turnover and have a role in development from Drosophila to mammals. This study demonstrates that the 71 amino acid DUF1127 protein CcaF1 from the alphaproteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides participates in maturation of the CcsR sRNAs that are processed from the 3' UTR of the ccaF mRNA and have a role in the oxidative stress defense. CcaF1 binds to many cellular RNAs of different type, several mRNAs with a function in cysteine / meth	2021	5	12	Nucleic Acids Res	Nucleic acids research	Alphaproteobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Computer Simulation; Endoribonucleases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Small Untranslated; RNA-Binding Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Stress, Physiological; Transcriptome	Gr..tzner	Julian
33705286	10.1134/S0006297921010107	Time-Resolved Electrometric Study of the F...O Transition in Cytochrome c Oxidase. The Effect of Zn<sup>2+</sup> Ions on the Positive Side of the Membrane.	The effect of Zn2+ on the P-side of proteoliposomes containing membrane-incorporated Rhodobacter sphaeroides cytochrome c oxidase was investigated by the time-resolved electrometrics following a single electron injection into the enzyme prepared in the F state. The wild-type enzyme was examined along with the two mutants, N139D and D132N. All obtained data indicate that the primary effect of Zn2+ added from the P-side of the membrane is slowing of the pumped proton release from the proton loading site (PLS) to the bulk aqueous phase on the P-side of the membrane. The results strongly suggest the presence of two pathways by which the pumped proton can exit the protein from the PLS and of two separate binding sites for Zn2+. A model is presented to explain the influence of Zn2+ on the kinetics of membrane-potential generation by the wild-type COX, as well as by the N139D and D132N mutants.	2021	5	10	Biochemistry (Mosc)	Biochemistry. Biokhimiia	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; cytochrome aa3; cytochrome c oxidase; electrogenic; proteoliposomes; proton pump; zinc ions; Cations, Divalent; Electron Transport Complex IV; Kinetics; Proton Pumps; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Zinc	Siletsky	Sergey A
33666852	10.1007/s12033-021-00312-z	Effects of Light Regulation on Proteome Expression in Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1.	Light plays an important role in the transcriptional regulation of photosynthetic apparatus. The influence of oxygen and light conditions on the protein expression of Rhodobacter sphaeroides was investigated using a proteomic approach. The R. sphaeroides was grown aerobically under dark cultivation (D24) and light cultivation (L24) for 24..h. An average of 950 distinguishable spots were obtained on 2-D analytic gel for D24 and L24 conditions, of which 48 proteins exhibited significant changes in protein expression levels. Among the 48, 31 proteins were upregulated and 17 proteins were downregulated in L24 when compared with D24. The results depict the comparative protein expression in R. sphaeroides mediated through growth under light or dark conditions. The data suggest that the overexpressed proteins, phosphoribosyl-ATP pyrophosphatase (HisE), in the D24/aerobic culture are involved in the positive regulation of PAC production can be functionally applied in metabolic engineering and 	2021	11	12	Mol Biotechnol	Molecular biotechnology	Comparative proteomics; Metabolic characteristics; Photosynthesis; Proteomic responses; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Light; Photosynthesis; Proteome; Proteomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Park	Jae-Min
33620307	10.1099/mic.0.001037	The periplasmic component of the DctPQM TRAP-transporter is part of the DctS/DctR sensory pathway in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides can use C4-dicarboxylic acids to grow heterotrophically or photoheterotropically, and it was previously demonstrated in Rhodobacter capsulatus that the DctPQM transporter system is essential to support growth using these organic acids under heterotrophic but not under photoheterotrophic conditions. In this work we show that in R. sphaeroides this transporter system is essential for photoheterotrophic and heterotrophic growth, when C4-dicarboxylic acids are used as a carbon source. We also found that over-expression of dctPQM is detrimental for photoheterotrophic growth in the presence of succinic acid in the culture medium. In agreement with this, we observed a reduction of the dctPQM promoter activity in cells growing under these conditions, indicating that the amount of DctPQM needs to be reduced under photoheterotrophic growth. It has been reported that the two-component system DctS and DctR activates the expression of dc	2021	9	30	Microbiology (Reading)	Microbiology (Reading, England)	DctPQM; DctR; DctS; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; TRAP-transporter; Bacterial Proteins; Biological Transport; Dicarboxylic Acids; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heterotrophic Processes; Light; Membrane Transport Proteins; Periplasm; Phototrophic Processes; Promoter Regions, Genetic; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic Acid	S..nchez-Ortiz	Veronica Jazm..n
33607992	10.1186/s12931-021-01663-6	PGC-1.. regulates airway epithelial barrier dysfunction induced by house dust mite.	The airway epithelial barrier function is disrupted in the airways of asthmatic patients. Abnormal mitochondrial biogenesis is reportedly involved in the pathogenesis of asthma. However, the role of mitochondrial biogenesis in the airway barrier dysfunction has not been elucidated yet. This study aimed to clarify whether the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor .. coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1..), a central regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, is involved in the disruption of the airway barrier function induced by aeroallergens. BEAS-2B cells were exposed to house dust mite (HDM) and the expressions of PGC-1.. and E-cadherin, a junctional protein, were examined by immunoblotting. The effect of SRT1720, a PGC-1.. activator, was investigated by immunoblotting, immunocytochemistry, and measuring the transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) on the HDM-induced reduction in mitochondrial biogenesis markers and junctional proteins in airway bronchial epithelial cells. Furthermore,the 	2021	11	4	Respir Res	Respiratory research	Airway barrier dysfunction; Asthma; House dust mite; PGC-1..; Animals; Asthma; Bronchi; Cell Line; Cells, Cultured; Disease Models, Animal; Electric Impedance; Epithelial Cells; Female; Humans; Mice; Mice, Inbred C57BL; Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Coactivator 1-alpha; Pyroglyphidae; Respiratory Mucosa; Signal Transduction	Saito	Tsutomu
33549057	10.1186/s12864-021-07409-4	Impact of PNPase on the transcriptome of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and its cooperation with RNase III and RNase E.	The polynucleotide phosphorylase (PNPase) is conserved among both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. As a core part of the Escherichia coli degradosome, PNPase is involved in maintaining proper RNA levels within the bacterial cell. It plays a major role in RNA homeostasis and decay by acting as a 3'-to-5' exoribonuclease. Furthermore, PNPase can catalyze the reverse reaction by elongating RNA molecules in 5'-to-3' end direction which has a destabilizing effect on the prolonged RNA molecule. RNA degradation is often initiated by an endonucleolytic cleavage, followed by exoribonucleolytic decay from the new 3' end. The PNPase mutant from the facultative phototrophic Rhodobacter sphaeroides exhibits several phenotypical characteristics, including diminished adaption to low temperature, reduced resistance to organic peroxide induced stress and altered growth behavior. The transcriptome composition differs in the pnp mutant strain, resulting in a decreased abundance of most tRNAs and	2021	5	14	BMC Genomics	BMC genomics	Alphaproteobacteria; Exoribonuclease; PNPase; RNA 3... end identification; RNase E; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Transcriptomics; XPEAP; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Endoribonucleases; Gram-Negative Bacteria; Gram-Positive Bacteria; Polyribonucleotide Nucleotidyltransferase; RNA Stability; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribonuclease III; Transcriptome	Spanka	Daniel-Timon
33526592	10.1073/pnas.2012170118	Chromatophores efficiently promote light-driven ATP synthesis and DNA transcription inside hybrid multicompartment artificial cells.	The construction of energetically autonomous artificial protocells is one of the most ambitious goals in bottom-up synthetic biology. Here, we show an efficient manner to build adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) synthesizing hybrid multicompartment protocells. Bacterial chromatophores from Rhodobacter sphaeroides accomplish the photophosphorylation of adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) to ATP, functioning as nanosized photosynthetic organellae when encapsulated inside artificial giant phospholipid vesicles (ATP production rate up to ...100 ATP...s<sup>-1</sup> per ATP synthase). The chromatophore morphology and the orientation of the photophosphorylation proteins were characterized by cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) and time-resolved spectroscopy. The freshly synthesized ATP has been employed for sustaining the transcription of a DNA gene, following the RNA biosynthesis inside individual vesicles by confocal microscopy. The hybrid multicompartment approach here proposed is very prom	2021	7	21	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	artificial photosynthesis; artificial protocells; bacterial chromatophores; light transduction; synthetic biology; ATP Synthetase Complexes; Adenosine Triphosphate; Artificial Cells; Bacterial Chromatophores; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Sunlight; Synthetic Biology; Transcription, Genetic	Altamura	Emiliano
33445684	10.3390/microorganisms9010161	Unraveling Mechanisms and Impact of Microbial Recruitment on Oilseed Rape (<i>Brassica napus</i> L.) and the Rhizosphere Mediated by Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria.	Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are noticeably applied to enhance plant nutrient acquisition and improve plant growth and health. However, limited information is available on the compositional dynamics of rhizobacteria communities with PGPR inoculation. In this study, we investigated the effects of three PGPR strains, Stenotrophomonas rhizophila, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens on the ecophysiological properties of Oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.), rhizosphere, and bulk soil; moreover, we assessed rhizobacterial community composition using high-throughput Illumina sequencing of 16S rRNA genes. Inoculation with S. rhizophila, R. sphaeroides, and B. amyloliquefaciens, significantly increased the plant total N (TN) (p &lt; 0.01) content. R. sphaeroides and B. amyloliquefaciens selectively enhanced the growth of Pseudomonadacea and Flavobacteriaceae, whereas S. rhizoph	2021	2	18	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	PGPR; dynamic rhizobacteria community; network analysis; plant growth stage; rhizosphere	Liu	Ying
33389445	10.1007/s11120-020-00807-x	The effect of some antiseptic drugs on the energy transfer in chromatophore photosynthetic membranes of purple non-sulfur bacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Chromatophores of purple non-sulfur bacteria (PNSB) are invaginations of the cytoplasmic membrane that contain a relatively simple system of light-harvesting protein-pigment complexes, a photosynthetic reaction center (RC), a cytochrome complex, and ATP synthase, which transform light energy into the energy of synthesized ATP. The high content of negatively charged phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and cardiolipin (CL) in PNSB chromatophore membranes makes these structures potential targets that bind cationic antiseptics. We used the methods of stationary and kinetic fluorescence spectroscopy to study the effect of some cationic antiseptics (chlorhexidine, picloxydine, miramistin, and octenidine at concentrations up to 100....M) on the spectral and kinetic characteristics of the components of the photosynthetic apparatus of Rhodobacter sphaeroides chromatophores. Here we present the experimental data on the reduced efficiency of light energy conversion in the chromatophore membranes isolated f	2021	10	5	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Antiseptics; Chromatophores; Energy transfer; Light-harvesting complexes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Anti-Infective Agents, Local; Bacterial Chromatophores; Cardiolipins; Cell Membrane; Energy Transfer; Kinetics; Light; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Phosphatidylglycerols; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spectrometry, Fluorescence	Strakhovskaya	Marina G
33258405	10.1080/15476286.2020.1857520	Antisense RNA asPcrL regulates expression of photosynthesis genes in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> by promoting RNase III-dependent turn-over of <i>puf</i> mRNA.	Anoxygenic photosynthesis is an important pathway for Rhodobacter sphaeroides to produce ATP under oxygen-limiting conditions. The expression of its photosynthesis genes is tightly regulated at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels in response to light and oxygen signals, to avoid photooxidative stress by the simultaneous presence of pigments, light and oxygen. The puf operon encodes pigment-binding proteins of the light-harvesting complex I (genes pufB and pufA), of the reaction centre (genes pufL and pufM), a scaffold protein (gene pufX) and includes the gene for sRNA PcrX. Segmental differences in the stability of the pufBALMX-pcrX mRNA contribute to the stoichiometry of LHI to RC complexes. With asPcrL we identified the third sRNA and the first antisense RNA that is involved in balancing photosynthesis gene expression in R. sphaeroides. asPcrL influences the stability of the pufBALMX-pcrX mRNA but not o	2022	3	1	RNA Biol	RNA biology	Antisense RNA; feed-forward-loop; gene regulation; photosynthesis; rhodobacter; rnase III; Bacterial Proteins; Base Pairing; Feedback, Physiological; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genes, Bacterial; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Operon; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; RNA, Antisense; RNA, Bacterial; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ribonuclease III	Reuscher	Carina M
36197600	10.1007/s11120-022-00968-x	Identification of amino acid residues in a proton release pathway near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer in reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	Insight into control of proton transfer, a crucial attribute of cellular functions, can be gained from investigations of bacterial reaction centers. While the uptake of protons associated with the reduction of the quinone is well characterized, the release of protons associated with the oxidized bacteriochlorophyll dimer has been poorly understood. Optical spectroscopy and proton release/uptake measurements were used to examine the proton release characteristics of twelve mutant reaction centers, each containing a change in an amino acid residue near the bacteriochlorophyll dimer. The mutant reaction centers had optical spectra similar to wild-type and were capable of transferring electrons to the quinones after light excitation of the bacteriochlorophyll dimer. They exhibited a large range in the extent of proton release and in the slow recovery of the optical signal for the oxidized dimer upon continuous illumination. Key roles were indicated for six amino acid residues, Thr L130, As	2022	10	5	Photosynth Res	Photosynthesis research	Optical spectroscopy; Photosynthesis; Proton transfer; Proton-coupled electron transfer; Purple bacteria	Allen	J P
36161928	10.1073/pnas.2122770119	Single-molecule investigations of single-chain cellulose biosynthesis.	Cellulose biosynthesis in sessile bacterial colonies originates in the membrane-integrated bacterial cellulose synthase (Bcs) AB complex. We utilize optical tweezers to measure single-strand cellulose biosynthesis by BcsAB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Synthesis depends on uridine diphosphate glucose, Mg<sup>2+</sup>, and cyclic diguanosine monophosphate, with the last displaying a retention time of ...80 min. Below a stall force of 12.7 pN, biosynthesis is relatively insensitive to force and proceeds at a rate of one glucose addition every 2.5 s at room temperature, increasing to two additions per second at 37... At low forces, conformational hopping is observed. Single-strand cellulose stretching unveiled a persistence length of 6.2 nm, an axial stiffness of 40.7 pN, and an ability for complexes to maintain a tight grip, with forces nearing 100 pN. Stretching experiments exhibited hysteresis, suggesting that cellulose microstructure underpinning robust biofilms begins to form 	2022	9	28	Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A	Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	biosynthesis; cellulose; cellulose synthase; optical tweezers; single-molecule studies; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Cellulose; Glucose; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Uridine Diphosphate Glucose	Hilton	Mark A
36115510	10.1016/j.biortech.2022.127955	Valorization of CO<sub>2</sub> to ..-farnesene in Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	The valorization of CO2 into valuable products is a sustainable strategy to help overcome the climate crisis. In particular, biological conversion is attractive as it can produce long-chain hydrocarbons such as terpenoids. This study reports the high yield of ..-farnesene production from CO2 by expressing heterologous ..-farnesene synthase (FS) into Rhodobacter sphaeroides. To increase the expression of FS, a strong active promoter and a ribosome binding site (RBS) were engineered. Moreover, ..-farnesene production was improved further through the supply of exogenous antioxidants and additional nutrients. Finally, ..-farnesene was produced from CO2 at a titer of 44.53..mg/L and yield of 234.08..mg/g, values that were correspondingly 23 times and 46 times higher than those from the initial production of ..-farnesene. Altogether, the results here suggest that the autotrophic production of ..-farnesene can provide a starting point for achieving a circular 	2022	9	22	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Bio-jet fuel; Carbon dioxide; Circular carbon economy; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; ..-farnesene	Lee	Sangmin
36096003	10.1016/j.foodchem.2022.134122	Evaluation of chemical composition, antioxidant activity, and gut microbiota associated with pumpkin juice fermented by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	To prepare pumpkin juice (PJ) rich in coenzyme Q10, this study analyzed the chemical composition, antioxidant activity, and gut microbiota of pumpkin juice fermented by Rhodobacter sphaeroides (RPJ). The number of viable bacteria in the juice reached 2.8......10<sup>8</sup> CFU/mL; the fermentation process mainly consumed glucose and sucrose; the total sugar content was reduced, ..-carotene was reduced, and a new antioxidant substance, coenzyme Q10, appeared at a content of 12.345..mg/L; levels of volatile alcohols, esters, and ketones significantly increased; and antioxidation ability improved, particularly the ferric ion reducing antioxidant power activity. The gut microbiota of mice shifted by increasing Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium and protected the gut barrier by reducing Proteobacteria after 48..h of fermentation. Pumpkin juice fermented by Rhodobacter sphaeroides not only produces bioactive substances with antioxidant capacity but can also regulate the gut microbiota of mic	2022	9	19	Food Chem	Food chemistry	Antioxidant; Coenzyme Q10; Gut microbiota; Pumpkin juice; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	Yaqin
36049649	10.1016/j.nbt.2022.08.005	Purple bacteria screening for photoautohydrogenotrophic food production: Are new H<sub>2</sub>-fed isolates faster and nutritionally better than photoheterotrophically obtained reference species?	Photoautohydrogenotrophic enrichments of wastewater treatment microbiomes were performed to obtain hypothetically high-potential specialist species for biotechnological applications. From these enrichment cultures, ten photoautohydrogenotrophic species were isolated: six Rhodopseudomonas species, three Rubrivivax members and Rhodobacter blasticus. The performance of these isolates was compared to three commonly studied, and originally photoheterotrophically enriched species (Rhodopseudomonas palustris, Rhodobacter capsulatus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides), designated as reference species. Repeated subcultivations were applied to improve the initial poor performance of the isolates (acclimation effect), which resulted in increases in both maximum growth rate and protein productivity. However, the maximum growth rate of the reference species remained 3-7 times higher compared to the isolates (0.42-0.84 d<sup>-1</sup> at 28....C), while protein productivities remained 1.5-1.7 times higher. 	2022	10	1	N Biotechnol	New biotechnology	CO(2) economy; Essential amino acids; Hydrogen economy; Phototrophic purple bacteria; Purple non-sulphur bacteria; Single-cell protein	Spanoghe	Janne
36033867	10.3389/fmicb.2022.931470	Overexpression of enzymes in glycolysis and energy metabolic pathways to enhance coenzyme Q10 production in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> VK-2-3.	We subjected the components of the glycolysis and energy metabolism pathways of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides) to metabolic engineering to improve the titer and yield of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10). Phosphofructokinase (PFK), cyclic adenylate-dependent protein kinase (PKAC), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and adenosine triphosphate hydrolase (KdpC) were overexpressed in R. sphaeroides VK-2-3 (VK-2-3). The strains were labeled R. sphaeroides PFK (RS.PFK), RS.PKAC, RS.PFK-PKAC, RS.KdpC, RS.GAPDH, and RS.KdpC-GAPDH. Results showed that the CoQ10 titers of RS.PFK, RS.PKAC, and RS.PFK-PKAC were 300.96........0.87, 405.94........4.77, and 379.94........0.42...mg/l, respectively. The CoQ10 titers of RS.PFK and VK-2-3 were not significantly different; however, those for RS.PKAC and RS.PFK-PKAC were 13 and 6% higher than that of VK-2-3, respectively. Further, the titers of RS.KdpC, RS.GAPDH, and RS.KdpC-GAPDH were 360.17....	2022	8	30	Front Microbiol	Frontiers in microbiology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; coenzyme Q10; energy metabolic pathways; glycolysis metabolic pathways; metabolic engineering	Zhang	Long
36008006	10.1016/bs.mie.2022.04.001	Engineering purple bacterial carotenoid biosynthesis to study the roles of carotenoids in light-harvesting complexes.	Carotenoids are important photosynthetic pigments that play key roles in light harvesting and energy transfer, photoprotection, and in the folding, assembly, and stabilization of light-harvesting pigment-protein complexes. The genetically tractable purple phototrophic bacteria have been useful for investigating the biosynthesis and function of photosynthetic pigments and cofactors, including carotenoids. Here, we give an overview of the roles of carotenoids in photosynthesis and of their biosynthesis, focusing on the extensively studied purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides as a model organism. We provide detailed procedures for manipulating carotenoid biosynthesis, and for the preparation and analysis of the light-harvesting and photosynthetic reaction center complexes that bind them. Using appropriate examples from the literature, we discuss how such approaches have enhanced our understanding of the biosynthesis of carotenoids and the photosynthesis-related functions of these fasc	2022	8	29	Methods Enzymol	Methods in enzymology	Carotenoids; Chlorophyll; Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM); Light-harvesting complex; Neurosporene; Photoprotection; Photosynthesis; Purple bacteria; Reaction center; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Spheroidene; Spheroidenone; Bacterial Proteins; Carotenoids; Energy Transfer; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Sutherland	George A
35995915	10.1038/s41598-022-18399-y	Capacity and kinetics of light-induced cytochrome oxidation in intact cells of photosynthetic bacteria.	Light-induced oxidation of the reaction center dimer and periplasmic cytochromes was detected by fast kinetic difference absorption changes in intact cells of wild type and cytochrome mutants (cycA, cytC4 and pufC) of Rubrivivax gelatinosus and Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Constant illumination from a laser diode or trains of saturating flashes enabled the kinetic separation of acceptor and donor redox processes, and the electron contribution from the cyt bc1 complex via periplasmic cytochromes. Under continuous excitation, concentrations of oxidized cytochromes increased in three phases where light intensity, electron transfer rate and the number of reduced cytochromes were the rate liming steps, respectively. By choosing suitable flash timing, gradual steps of cytochrome oxidation in whole cells were observed; each successive flash resulted in a smaller, damped oxidation. We attribute this damping to lowered availability of reduced cytochromes resulting from both exchange (unb	2022	8	24	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Cytochrome c Group; Cytochromes; Electron Transport; Kinetics; Oxidation-Reduction; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kis	Mariann
35995227	10.1016/j.envres.2022.114045	Photosynthetic microbial fuel cells for methanol treatment using graphene electrodes.	Photosynthetic microbial fuel cells (pMFC) represent a promising approach for treating methanol (CH3OH) wastewater. However, their use is constrained by a lack of knowledge on the extracellular electron transfer capabilities of photosynthetic methylotrophs, especially when coupled with metal electrodes. This study assessed the CH3OH oxidation capabilities of Rhodobacter sphaeroides 2.4.1 in two-compartment pMFCs. A 3D nickel (Ni) foam modified with plasma-grown graphene (Gr) was used as an anode, nitrate mineral salts media (NMS) supplemented with 0.1% CH3OH as anolyte, carbon brush as cathode, and 50..mM ferricyanide as catholyte. Two simultaneous pMFCs that used bare Ni foam and carbon felt served as controls. The Ni/Gr electrode registered a two-fold lower charge transfer resistance (0.005..k....cm<sup>2</sup>) and correspondingly 16-fold higher power density (141 mW/m<sup>2</sup>) compared to controls. The underlying reasons for the enhanced perform	2022	9	26	Environ Res	Environmental research	Graphene; Methanol; Microbial fuel cells; Photosynthetic; Rhodobacter	Jawaharraj	Kalimuthu
35982379	10.1007/s12033-022-00553-6	Evaluation of Growth and Utilization Potential of Rhodobacter sphaeroides in Reused Medium.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a metabolically versatile purple non-sulfur bacteria that can produce valuable substances. As the low-cost and high-efficiency production of valuable substances is attracting attention, the reuse of the medium is emerging as a promising strategy. Therefore, in this study, the growth of R. sphaeroides was evaluated by reusing the medium of Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. As a result, in the reuse of the medium in which S. cerevisiae was cultured, sufficient growth of R. sphaeroides could be confirmed, and especially, the growth of R. sphaeroides was not inhibited under aerobic conditions. Therefore, it is considered that the strategy of reusing the medium of S. cerevisiae is sufficiently feasible. Of the organic compounds investigated, R. sphaeroides grew best in succinic acid, followed by malic acid, citric acid, acetic acid, and glucose. In addition, by comparing photopigment synthesis in the reused medium, we propose the hypothesis that succi	2022	8	18	Mol Biotechnol	Molecular biotechnology	Growth limiting factor; Photopigment synthesis; Recycling the used medium; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Succinic acid	Yu	Jaeyoung
35960270	10.1021/acs.jpcb.2c04371	Influence of Polar Mutations on the Electronic and Structural Properties of <i>Q</i><sub>A</sub><sup>-..</sup> in Bacterial Reaction Centers.	Reaction centers from Rhodobacter sphaeroides with residue M265 mutated from isoleucine to threonine, serine, and asparagine (M265IT, M265IS, and M265IN, respectively) in the QA<sup>-..</sup> state are studied by high-resolution electron spin echo envelope modulation (ESEEM) and electron nuclear double resonance spectroscopy methods to investigate the structural characteristics of these mutants influencing the redox properties of the QA site. All three mutants decrease the redox midpoint potential (Em) of QA by ...0.1 V, yet the mechanism for this drop in Em is unclear. In this work, we examine (i) the hydrogen bonding interactions between QA<sup>-..</sup> and residues histidine M219 and alanine M260, (ii) the electron spin density distribution of the semiquinone, and (iii) the orientations of the ubiquinone methoxy substituents. <sup>13</sup>C measurements show no 	2022	8	26	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy; Electronics; Hydrogen Bonding; Mutation; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Taguchi	Alexander T
35945473	10.1007/s12033-022-00547-4	Optimized Rhodobacter sphaeroides for the Production of Antioxidants and the Pigments with Antioxidant Activity.	The photosynthetic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, is a bacterium that can grow in a variety of environments and produces substances with antioxidant effects. In this study, we investigated the culture conditions to increase the production of antioxidants in R. sphaeroides, which can grow under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. After incubation in the exponential phase and stationary phase under both conditions, a 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl assay was used to confirm the antioxidant effect. Although the highest antioxidant effect was shown in the stationary phase under aerobic conditions, the antioxidant effect of each cell was found to be greater when cultured under anaerobic conditions. The antioxidant activity of R. sphaeroides was increased by sonication. In addition, the contents of carotenoids and bacteriochlorophyll, which are pigments with antioxidant effects, produced by R. sphaeroides were measured. We confirmed that the content of carotenoids was higher in anaerob	2022	8	9	Mol Biotechnol	Molecular biotechnology	Antioxidant activity; Cell culture condition; Pigments; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lee	Subin
35876508	10.1128/mbio.01481-22	The Histidine Kinase CckA Is Directly Inhibited by a Response Regulator-like Protein in a Negative Feedback Loop.	In alphaproteobacteria, the two-component system (TCS) formed by the hybrid histidine kinase CckA, the phosphotransfer protein ChpT, and the response regulator CtrA is widely distributed. In these microorganisms, this system controls diverse functions such as motility, DNA repair, and cell division. In Caulobacterales and Rhizobiales, CckA is regulated by the pseudo- histidine kinase DivL, and the response regulator DivK. However, this regulatory circuit differs for other bacterial groups. For instance, in Rhodobacterales, DivK is absent and DivL consists of only the regulatory PAS domain. In this study, we report that, in Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the kinase activity of CckA is inhibited by Osp, a single domain response regulator (SDRR) protein that directly interacts with the transmitter domain of CckA. In vitro, the kinase activity of CckA was severely inhibited with an equimolar amount of Osp, whereas the phosphatase activity of CckA was not affected. We 	2022	9	2	mBio	mBio	CckA; Osp; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Roseobacteraceae; bacterial signal transduction; hybrid histidine kinase; two-component systems; Alphaproteobacteria; Bacterial Proteins; Feedback; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Phosphorylation; Phylogeny; Transcription Factors	Vega-Baray	Benjam..n
35856337	10.1021/acs.biochem.2c00173	HUG Domain Is Responsible for Active Dimer Stabilization in an NrdJd Ribonucleotide Reductase.	Ribonucleotide reductases (RNRs) catalyze the reduction of ribonucleotides to the corresponding deoxyribonucleotides. The catalytic activity of most RNRs depends on the formation of a dimer of the catalytic subunits. The active site is located at the interface, and part of the substrate binding site and regulatory mechanisms work across the subunit in the dimer. In this study, we describe and characterize a novel domain responsible for forming the catalytic dimer in several class II RNRs. The 3D structure of the class II RNR from Rhodobacter sphaeroides reveals a so far undescribed ..-helical domain in the dimer interface, which is embracing the other subunit. Genetic removal of this HUG domain leads to a severe reduction of activity paired with reduced dimerization capability. In comparison with other described RNRs, the enzyme with this domain is less dependent on the presence of nucleotides to act as allosteric effectors in the formation of dimers. The HUG domain appears to s	2022	8	3	Biochemistry	Biochemistry	Allosteric Regulation; Binding Sites; Catalytic Domain; Models, Molecular; Ribonucleotide Reductases	Fietze	Tobias
35815074	10.25122/jml-2021-0255	Lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter spheroids modulate toll-like receptors expression and tissue damage in an animal model of bilateral renal ischemic reperfusion injury.	Ischemic reperfusion injury (IRI) of the kidneys is a direct sequela of surgical procedures associated with the interruption of blood supply. The pathophysiology of IRI is complicated, and several inflammatories, apoptosis, and oxidative stress pathways are implicated. Among the major receptors directly involved in renal IRI are the toll-like receptors (TLRs), specifically TLR2 and TLR4. In this study, we investigated the effects of Lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter Sphaeroides (TLR2 and TLR4 antagonist, LPS-RS) and the ultrapure form (pure TLR4 antagonist, ULPS-RS) on the histopathological changes and TLRs expression in an animal model of bilateral renal IRI. Forty-eight adult male rats were allocated into six groups (N=8) as follows: sham group (negative control without IRI), control group (rats underwent bilateral renal ischemia for 30 minutes and 2 hours of reperfusion), vehicle group (IRI+ vehicle), LPS-RS group (IRI+ 0.5 mg/kg of LPS-RS), ULPS-RS group (IRI+ 0.1 mg/kg of	2022	7	12	J Med Life	Journal of medicine and life	LPS-RS; Rhodobacter Sphaeroides; TLR2; TLR4; TLR4 antagonist; ULPS-RS; mixed TLR2; pure TLR4 antagonist; Animals; Kidney; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Models, Animal; Rats; Reperfusion Injury; Rhodobacter; Toll-Like Receptor 2; Toll-Like Receptor 4; Toll-Like Receptors	Aal-Aaboda	Munaf
35767559	10.1371/journal.pgen.1010270	The essential Rhodobacter sphaeroides CenKR two-component system regulates cell division and envelope biosynthesis.	Bacterial two-component systems (TCSs) often function through the detection of an extracytoplasmic stimulus and the transduction of a signal by a transmembrane sensory histidine kinase. This kinase then initiates a series of reversible phosphorylation modifications to regulate the activity of a cognate, cytoplasmic response regulator as a transcription factor. Several TCSs have been implicated in the regulation of cell cycle dynamics, cell envelope integrity, or cell wall development in Escherichia coli and other well-studied Gram-negative model organisms. However, many ..-proteobacteria lack homologs to these regulators, so an understanding of how ..-proteobacteria orchestrate extracytoplasmic events is lacking. In this work we identify an essential TCS, CenKR (Cell envelope Kinase and Regulator), in the ..-proteobacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides and show that modulation of its activity results in major morphological changes. Using genetic and biochemical approaches, we dissect the re	2022	7	14	PLoS Genet	PLoS genetics	Bacterial Proteins; Cell Division; Escherichia coli; Escherichia coli Proteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Histidine Kinase; Peptidoglycan; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Lakey	Bryan D
35722353	10.3389/fmicb.2022.893524	Swimming Using a Unidirectionally Rotating, Single Stopping Flagellum in the Alpha Proteobacterium <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides has 2 flagellar operons, one, Fla2, encoding a polar tuft that is not expressed under laboratory conditions and a second, Fla1, encoding a single randomly positioned flagellum. This single flagellum, unlike the flagella of other species studied, only rotates in a counterclockwise direction. Long periods of smooth swimming are punctuated by short stops, caused by the binding of one of 3 competing CheY homologs to the motor. During a stop, the motor is locked, not freely rotating, and the flagellar filament changes conformation to a short wavelength, large amplitude structure, reforming into a driving helix when the motor restarts. The cell has been reoriented during the brief stop and the next period of smooth swimming is a new direction.	2022	7	16	Front Microbiol	Frontiers in microbiology	Rhodobacter; chemotaxis; model; motor; swimming	Armitage	Judith P
35670584	10.1128/aem.00507-22	Construction of a Rhodobacter sphaeroides Strain That Efficiently Produces Hydrogen Gas from Acetate without Poly(..-Hydroxybutyrate) Accumulation: Insight into the Role of PhaR in Acetate Metabolism.	The purple nonsulfur phototrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides produces hydrogen gas (H2) from acetate. An approach to improve the H2 production is preventing accumulation of an intracellular energy storage molecule known as poly(..-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB), which competes with H2 production for reducing power. However, disruption of PHB biosynthesis has been reported to severely impair the acetate assimilation depending on the genetic backgrounds and/or culture conditions. To solve this problem, we analyzed the relationship between PHB accumulation and acetate metabolism in R. sphaeroides. Gene deletion analyses based on the wild-type strain revealed that among the two polyhydroxyalkanoate synthase genes in the genome, phaC1, but not phaC2, is essential for PHB accumulation, and the phaC1 deletion mutant exhibited slow growth with acetate. On the other hand, a strain with the deletion of phaC1 together with phaR, w	2022	6	30	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	PHB; PhaR; Rhodobacter; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; acetate; ethylmalonyl-CoA; hydrogen; hydrogen production; nitrogenase; polyhydroxyalkanoate; polyhydroxybutyrate; 3-Hydroxybutyric Acid; Acetates; Bacterial Proteins; Hydrogen; Hydroxybutyrates; Polyesters; Polyhydroxyalkanoates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Shimizu	Tetsu
35630371	10.3390/microorganisms10050926	Diversity of Cytochrome <i>c</i> Oxidase Assembly Proteins in Bacteria.	Cytochrome c oxidase in animals, plants and many aerobic bacteria functions as the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain where it reduces molecular oxygen to form water in a reaction coupled to energy conservation. The three-subunit core of the enzyme is conserved, whereas several proteins identified to function in the biosynthesis of the common family A1 cytochrome c oxidase show diversity in bacteria. Using the model organisms Bacillus subtilis, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Paracoccus denitrificans, and Rhodobacter sphaeroides, the present review focuses on proteins for assembly of the heme a, heme a3, CuB, and CuA metal centers. The known biosynthesis proteins are, in most cases, discovered through the analysis of mutants. All proteins directly involved in cytochrome c oxidase assembly have likely not been identified in any organism. Limitations in the use of mutants to identify and fun	2022	7	16	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	bioenergetics; copper protein; cytochrome oxidase; enzyme assembly factors; enzyme biosynthesis; heme protein	Hederstedt	Lars
35576044	10.1007/s12010-022-03958-w	Sequential Dark-Photo Batch Fermentation and Kinetic Modelling for Biohydrogen Production Using Cheese Whey as a Feedstock.	The present work describes the utilisation of cheese whey to produce biohydrogen by sequential dark-photo fermentation. In first stage, cheese whey was fermented by Enterobacter aerogenes 2822 cells in a 2 L double-walled cylindrical bioreactor to produce hydrogen/organic acids giving maximum biohydrogen yield and cumulative hydrogen of 2.43........0.12..mol..mol<sup>-1</sup> lactose and 3270........143.5..mL at cheese whey concentration of 105..mM lactose L<sup>-1</sup>. The soluble metabolites of dark fermentation when utilised as carbon source for photo fermentation by Rhodobacter sphaeroides O.U.001, the yield, and cumulative hydrogen was increased to 4.22........0.20..mol..mol<sup>-1</sup> VFA and 3800........170..mL, respectively. Meanwhile, an overall COD removal of about 38.08% was also achieved. The overall biohydrogen yield was increased from 2.43 (dark fermentation) to 6.65........0.25..mol..mol<sup>-1</sup> lactose. Similarly, the modelling for biohydrogen production in bio	2022	8	31	Appl Biochem Biotechnol	Applied biochemistry and biotechnology	Biohydrogen production, Cheese whey, Sequential dark-photo fermentation, Bioreactor, Kinetic modelling; Carbon; Cheese; Fermentation; Hydrogen; Lactose; Whey; Whey Proteins	Rao	Raman
35522727	10.1021/acs.jpcb.1c09809	Kinetics of Initial Charge Separation in the Photosynthetic Reaction Centers of <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	A stochastic kinetic study of the initial electron transfer reaction in the reaction centers of wild-type and different mutants of photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides is suggested. The present approach to the disorder-driven complex kinetics skilfully offers an alternative to the earlier dynamic analyses. Exploiting a rational description of the reaction coordinate, effected by the relaxation of the surrounding protein environment, the measured kinetics were reproduced quantitatively. Notably, comparisons of the extracted relative free energies of electron transfer for the selected mutants and the available independent electrochemical estimates show exact agreement in some cases.	2022	5	20	J Phys Chem B	The journal of physical chemistry. B	Electron Transport; Kinetics; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kundu	Prasanta
35488435	10.1016/j.bpj.2022.04.031	Molecular insights into the role of heme in the transcriptional regulatory system AppA/PpsR.	Heme has been shown to have a crucial role in the signal transduction mechanism of the facultative photoheterotrophic bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides. It interacts with the transcriptional regulatory complex AppA/PpsR, in which AppA and PpsR function as the antirepressor and repressor, respectively, of photosynthesis gene expression. The mechanism, however, of this interaction remains incompletely understood. In this study, we combined electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy and F..rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) to demonstrate the ligation of heme in PpsR with a proposed cysteine residue. We show that heme binding in AppA affects the fluorescent properties of the dark-adapted state of the protein, suggesting a less constrained flavin environment compared with the absence of heme and the light-adapted state. We performed ultrafast transient absorption measurements in order to reveal potential differences in the dynamic processes in the full-length AppA and its heme-	2022	6	10	Biophys J	Biophysical journal	Bacterial Proteins; Dinucleoside Phosphates; Flavins; Flavoproteins; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Heme; Repressor Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Kapetanaki	Sofia M
35456821	10.3390/microorganisms10040771	Plant-Growth-Promoting Effect by Cell Components of Purple Non-Sulfur Photosynthetic Bacteria.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacterium (PNSB), was disrupted by sonication and fractionated by centrifugation into the supernatant and pellet. The effects of the supernatant and pellet on plant growth were examined using Brassica rapa var. perviridis (komatsuna) in the pot experiments. Both fractions showed growth-promoting effects: the supernatant at high concentrations (1 .. 10<sup>7</sup> to 4 .. 10<sup>7</sup> cfu-equivalent mL<sup>-1</sup>) and the pellet at a low concentration of 2 .. 10<sup>3</sup> cfu-equivalent mL<sup>-1</sup>). We expected lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to be the active principle of the pellet fraction and examined the effects of LPS on the growth of B. rapa var. perviridis. The growth of the plants was significantly enhanced by the foliar feeding of R. sphaeroides LPS at concentrations ranging from 10 to 100 pg mL<sup>-1</sup>. The present study is the first report indicating that LPS acts as	2022	4	29	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; lipopolysaccharide; plant growth promotion; purple non-sulfur photosynthetic bacteria	Hayashi	Shuhei
35418573	10.1038/s41467-022-29563-3	Structural basis for the assembly and quinone transport mechanisms of the dimeric photosynthetic RC-LH1 supercomplex.	The reaction center (RC) and light-harvesting complex 1 (LH1) form a RC-LH1 core supercomplex that is vital for the primary reactions of photosynthesis in purple phototrophic bacteria. Some species possess the dimeric RC-LH1 complex with a transmembrane polypeptide PufX, representing the largest photosynthetic complex in anoxygenic phototrophs. However, the details of the architecture and assembly mechanism of the RC-LH1 dimer are unclear. Here we report seven cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of RC-LH1 supercomplexes from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. Our structures reveal that two PufX polypeptides are positioned in the center of the S-shaped RC-LH1 dimer, interlocking association between the components and mediating RC-LH1 dimerization. Moreover, we identify another transmembrane peptide, designated PufY, which is located between the RC and LH1 subunits near the LH1 opening. PufY binds a quinone molecule and prevents LH1 subunits from completely encircling the RC, creating a 	2022	4	15	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bacterial Proteins; Benzoquinones; Cryoelectron Microscopy; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Peptides; Photosynthesis; Photosynthetic Reaction Center Complex Proteins; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Cao	Peng
35408957	10.3390/ijms23073601	Mechanisms of Action of Non-Canonical ECF Sigma Factors.	Extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factors are subunits of the RNA polymerase specialized in activating the transcription of a subset of genes responding to a specific environmental condition. The signal-transduction pathways where they participate can be activated by diverse mechanisms. The most common mechanism involves the action of a membrane-bound anti-sigma factor, which sequesters the ECF sigma factor, and releases it after the stimulus is sensed. However, despite most of these systems following this canonical regulation, there are many ECF sigma factors exhibiting a non-canonical regulatory mechanism. In this review, we aim to provide an updated and comprehensive view of the different activation mechanisms known for non-canonical ECF sigma factors, detailing their inclusion to the different phylogenetic groups and describing the mechanisms of regulation of some of their representative members such as EcfG from Rhodobacter sphaeroides, showing a partner-switch mechanis	2022	4	13	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	ECF sigma factor; stress response; transcriptional regulation; Bacterial Proteins; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Phylogeny; Sigma Factor	Marcos-Torres	Francisco Javier
35398747	10.1016/j.talanta.2022.123448	Accurate and online quantification of viable Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells using a flow cytometry-dielectric spectroscopy (FCM-DS) method.	Accurate and online quantification of viable cells is one of the necessary requirements during the microbial fermentation process for high productivity. The flow cytometry (FCM)-based method accurately quantifies viable cells, but this offline method cannot reflect the counts constantly. The dielectric spectroscopy (DS) sensor is widely utilized to monitor viable cells online; however, accurately converting the capacitance value of the DS sensor to the viable bacterial cell counts has barely been tried. We have developed a method by coupling the principles and techniques of FCM and the DS sensor to quantify viable Rhodobacter sphaeroides cells. Using specific fluorescent antibodies and propidium iodide (PI), viable R. sphaeroides cells were accurately quantified within 30..min by FCM. The DS sensor was combined with the FCM to create a direct capacitance-viable cell count quantification system. The LOD (limit of detection) of the FCM-DS method was 8......10<sup>8</sup> CFU/mL, RSD (rel	2022	5	30	Talanta	Talanta	Coenzyme Q10; Dielectric spectroscopy; FCM-DS method; Flow cytometry; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Viable cell count; Cell Count; Dielectric Spectroscopy; Flow Cytometry; Reproducibility of Results; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Wang	Meng
35393413	10.1038/s41467-022-29453-8	Asymmetric structure of the native Rhodobacter sphaeroides dimeric LH1-RC complex.	Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a model organism in bacterial photosynthesis, and its light-harvesting-reaction center (LH1-RC) complex contains both dimeric and monomeric forms. Here we present cryo-EM structures of the native LH1-RC dimer and an LH1-RC monomer lacking protein-U (..U). The native dimer reveals several asymmetric features including the arrangement of its two monomeric components, the structural integrity of protein-U, the overall organization of LH1, and rigidities of the proteins and pigments. PufX plays a critical role in connecting the two monomers in a dimer, with one PufX interacting at its N-terminus with another PufX and an LH1 ..-polypeptide in the other monomer. One protein-U was only partially resolved in the dimeric structure, signaling different degrees of disorder in the two monomers. The ..U LH1-RC monomer was half-moon-shaped and contained 11 ..- and 10 ..-polypeptides, indicating a critical role for protein-U in controlling the number of ....-subunits requir	2022	4	11	Nat Commun	Nature communications	Bacterial Proteins; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Models, Molecular; Peptides; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Tani	Kazutoshi
35371503	10.1107/S2052252521013178	X-ray structure of the <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i> reaction center with an M197 Phe...His substitution clarifies the properties of the mutant complex.	The first steps of the global process of photosynthesis take place in specialized membrane pigment-protein complexes called photosynthetic reaction centers (RCs). The RC of the photosynthetic purple bacterium Rhodobacter sphaeroides, a relatively simple analog of the more complexly organized photosystem II in plants, algae and cyanobacteria, serves as a convenient model for studying pigment-protein interactions that affect photochemical processes. In bacterial RCs the bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) dimer P serves as the primary electron donor, and its redox potential is a critical factor in the efficient functioning of the RC. It has previously been shown that the replacement of Phe M197 by His strongly affects the oxidation potential of P (E m P/P<sup>+</sup>), increasing its value by 125...mV, as well as increasing the thermal stability of RC and its stability in response to external pressure. The crystal structures of F(M197)H RC at high resolution obtained usin	2022	7	16	IUCrJ	IUCrJ	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; X-ray serial crystallography; hydrogen-bonding networks; membrane proteins; photosynthetic reaction center; protein structure; redox potential	Selikhanov	Georgii
35338862	10.1016/j.bioelechem.2022.108102	Enhanced CO<sub>2</sub> electroconversion of Rhodobacter sphaeroides by cobalt-phosphate complex assisted water oxidation.	CO2 can be a next generation feedstock for electricity-driven bioproduction due to its abundance and availability. Microbial electrosynthesis (MES), a promising technique for CO2 electroconversion, provides an attractive route for the production of valuable products from CO2, but issues surrounding efficiency and reasonable productivity should be resolved. Improving the anode performance for water oxidation under neutral pH is one of the most important aspects to advance current MES. Here, we introduce cobalt-phosphate (Co-Pi) assisted water oxidation at the counter electrode (i.e., anode) to upgrade the MES performance at pH 7.0. We show that CO2 can be converted by photochemoautotrophic bacterium, Rhodobacter sphaeroides into organic acids and carotenoids in the MES reactor. Planktonic cells of R. sphareroides in the Co-Pi anode equipped MES reactor was ca. 1.5-fold higher than in the control condition (w/o Co-Pi). The faradaic efficiency o	2022	5	30	Bioelectrochemistry	Bioelectrochemistry (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	CO(2) electroconversion; Cobalt-phosphate; Microbial electrosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water oxidation; Carbon Dioxide; Cobalt; Electrodes; Phosphates; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Water	Fitriana	Hana Nur
35306175	10.1016/j.resmic.2022.103938	Isoprene production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides and its antimicrobial activity.	Extensive studies on the antimicrobial activity of terpene-based substances, which are the main components of essential oils, are continuously underway. And some hydrocarbons constituting antimicrobial substances have been reported to exhibit the antimicrobial activity. This study confirmed the production of isoprene, the most basic constituent hydrocarbon of terpene, by Rhodobacter sphaeroides, and investigated the antimicrobial activity of isoprene and its mechanism. We developed an air-sharing culture system in which different bacterial cultures aseptically shared the same atmosphere, to evaluate the effect of volatile isoprene. Effects were tested on two Gram-negative bacteria, and on two Gram-positive bacteria. As a result, the isoprene released from R...sphaeroides showed the antimicrobial activity against all evaluated strains, especially against Gram-positive bacteria than Gram-negative bacteria. In addition, the microstructure of the bacteria was evaluated via FE-SEM. The FE-S	2022	7	26	Res Microbiol	Research in microbiology	Antimicrobial activity; Antimicrobial mechanism; Isoprene; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Butadienes; Gram-Negative Bacteria; Gram-Positive Bacteria; Hemiterpenes; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Yu	Jaeyoung
35302697	10.1002/anie.202201148	Sustaining Electron Transfer Pathways Extends Biohybrid Photoelectrode Stability to Years.	The exploitation of natural photosynthetic enzymes in semi-artificial devices constitutes an attractive and potentially sustainable route for the conversion of solar energy into electricity and solar fuels. However, the stability of photosynthetic proteins after incorporation in a biohybrid architecture typically limits the operational lifetime of biophotoelectrodes to a few hours. Here, we demonstrate ways to greatly enhance the stability of a mesoporous electrode coated with the RC-LH1 photoprotein from Rhodobacter sphaeroides. By preserving electron transfer pathways, we extended operation under continuous high-light to 33...days, and operation after storage to over two years. Coupled with large photocurrents that reached peak values of 4.6...mA...cm<sup>-2</sup> , the optimized biophotoelectrode produced a cumulative output of 86...C...cm<sup>-2</sup> , the largest reported performance to date. Our results demonstrate that the factor limiting stability is the architecture surroundi	2022	5	30	Angew Chem Int Ed Engl	Angewandte Chemie (International ed. in English)	Biosensors; Electrochemistry; Photochemistry; Photosynthesis; Solar Energy Conversion; Electrodes; Electrons; Light-Harvesting Protein Complexes; Luminescent Proteins; Photosynthesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides	Friebe	Vincent M
35295297	10.3389/fmicb.2022.847757	Regulation of Reactive Oxygen Species Promotes Growth and Carotenoid Production Under Autotrophic Conditions in <i>Rhodobacter sphaeroides</i>.	Industrial demand for capture and utilization using microorganisms to reduce CO2, a major cause of global warming, is significantly increasing. Rhodobacter sphaeroides is a suitable strain for the process of converting CO2 into high-value materials because it can accept CO2 and has various metabolic pathways. However, it has been mainly studied for heterotrophic growth that uses sugars and organic acids as carbon sources, not autotrophic growth. Here, we report that the regulation of reactive oxygen species is critical for growth when using CO2 as a sole carbon source in R. sphaeroides. In general, the growth rate is much slower under autotrophic conditions compared to heterotrophic conditions. To improve this, we performed random mutagenesis using N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (NTG). As a result, we selected the YR-1 strain with a maximum specific growth rate (..) 1.44 day<sup>-1</sup> in the early g	2022	3	19	Front Microbiol	Frontiers in microbiology	Rhodobacter sphaeroides; autotrophic conditions; carotenoid; cell growth; reactive oxygen species	Lee	Yu Rim
35218188	10.1093/femsle/fnab160	Enhanced CoQ10 production by genome modification of Rhodobacter sphaeroides via Tn7 transposition.	As a native CoQ10 producer, Rhodobacter sphaeroides has been extensively engineered to enhance CoQ10 production. However, the genetic manipulations using plasmids suffer from risk of plasmid loss during propagation process, biomass impairment due to cellular burden and bio-safety concerns. In this paper, genomic manipulations via Tn7 transposition was conducted to boost the CoQ10 biosynthesis in R. sphaeroides. The titer production and content of CoQ10 were improved by 18.44% and 18.87%, respectively compared to the wild type, when an additional copy of dxs and dxr were integrated into the genome. Further overexpression of idi and ispD by genomic integration created strain RSPCDDII with CoQ10 production and content of 81.23..mg/L and 5.93..mg/g, which were 54.28 and 55.97% higher than those of the wild type. The gene segments were successfully inserted into the attTn7 site of the R. sphaeroides genome. Meanwhile, the biomass was not affected. Compared to overexpression of genes on plas	2022	5	5	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	 Rhodobacter sphaeroides ;  attTn7 site; CoQ10; genomic integration; metabolic engineering; Biomass; Genomics; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Ubiquinone	Zhu	Yongqiang
35212086	10.1111/wrr.13003	Manipulating the microbiome alters regenerative outcomes in Xenopus laevis tadpoles via lipopolysaccharide signalling.	Xenopus laevis tadpoles can regenerate functional tails, containing the spinal cord, notochord, muscle, fin, blood vessels and nerves, except for a brief refractory period at around 1 week of age. At this stage, amputation of the tadpole's tail may either result in scarless wound healing or the activation of a regeneration programme, which replaces the lost tissues. We recently demonstrated a link between bacterial lipopolysaccharides and successful tail regeneration in refractory stage tadpoles and proposed that this could result from lipopolysaccharides binding to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Here, we have used 16S rRNA sequencing to show that the tadpole skin microbiome is highly variable between sibships and that the community can be altered by raising embryos in the antibiotic gentamicin. Six Gram-negative genera, including Delftia and Chryseobacterium, were over-represented in tadpoles that underwent tail regeneration. Lipopolysaccharides purified from a commensal Chryseobacteriu	2022	5	7	Wound Repair Regen	Wound repair and regeneration : official publication of the Wound Healing Society [and] the European Tissue Repair Society	NA	Chapman	Phoebe A
35167867	10.1053/j.gastro.2022.02.016	Mucosal Serotonin Reuptake Transporter Expression in Irritable Bowel Syndrome Is Modulated by Gut Microbiota Via Mast Cell-Prostaglandin E2.	Increased colonic serotonin (5-HT) level and decreased serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) expression in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) may contribute to diarrhea and visceral hypersensitivity. We investigated whether mucosal SERT is modulated by gut microbiota via a mast cell-prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) pathway. C57Bl/6 mice received intracolonic infusion of fecal supernatant (FS) from healthy controls or patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D). The role of mast cells was studied in mast cell-deficient mice. Colonic organoids and/or mast cells were used for in..vitro experiments. SERT expression was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Visceromotor responses to..colorectal distension and colonic transit were assessed. Intracolonic infusion of IBS-D FS in mice caused an increase in mucosal 5-HT compared with healthy control FS, accompanied by ...50% reduction in SERT expression. Mast cell stabilizers, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors	2022	5	17	Gastroenterology	Gastroenterology	Colonic Mucosa; IBS; Mast Cells; SERT; Animals; Colorectal Neoplasms; Diarrhea; Dinoprostone; Gastrointestinal Microbiome; Humans; Intestinal Mucosa; Irritable Bowel Syndrome; Lipopolysaccharides; Mast Cells; Mice; Serotonin; Serotonin Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins	Gao	Jun
35143796	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.153736	Spectral bands of incandescent lamp leading to variable productivity of purple bacteria biomass and microbial protein: Full is better than segmented.	Purple non...sulfur bacteria (PNSB) are competent microorganisms capable of producing value-added products from waste streams. Light source is one of the most influential factors determining the efficiency of this process. Previous studies mostly focused on optimizing light intensity, while the impact of spectral bands on PNSB growth is still unknown. To fill the knowledge gap, this study investigated the responses of PNSB (i.e., Rhodobacter sphaeroides) growth, protein content and enzyme activity to various spectral bands of an incandescent lamp for the first time. It was found that the full spectrum of the incandescent lamp was propitious to cultivate PNSB than segmented spectral bands, as demonstrated by the maximum biomass yield of 1.05 g biomass g<sup>-1</sup> CODremoved, specific growth rate of 0.53 d<sup>-1</sup> and protein concentration of 0.48 g L<sup>-1</sup>. The production of biomass and protein under infrared (IR) spectral band were slightly lower than those un	2022	4	6	Sci Total Environ	The Science of the total environment	Enzyme activity; Full spectrum; Infrared spectral band; Protein; Purple non...sulfur bacteria; Biomass; Photosynthesis; Proteobacteria	Yu	Siwei
35122839	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.153489	Regulating light, oxygen and volatile fatty acids to boost the productivity of purple bacteria biomass, protein and co-enzyme Q10.	Purple non...sulfur bacteria (PNSB) possess significant potential for bioresource recovery from wastewater. Effective operational tools are needed to boost productivity and direct the PNSB biomass towards abundant value-added substances (e.g., protein and co-enzyme Q10, CoQ10). This study aimed to investigate the impact of light, oxygen and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) on PNSB growth (i.e., Rhodobacter sphaeroides) and productivity of protein and CoQ10. Overall, the biomass yields and specific growth rates of PNSB were in the ranges of 0.57-1.08 g biomass g<sup>-1</sup> CODremoved and 0.48-0.71 d<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. VFAs did not influence the biomass yield, yet acetate and VFA mixtures enhanced the specific growth rate with a factor of 1.2-1.5 compared to propionate and butyrate. The most PNSB biomass (1.08 g biomass g<sup>-1</sup> CODremoved and 0.71 d<sup>-1</sup>) and the highest biomass quality (protein content of 609 mg g<sup>-1</sup> dry cell weight (	2022	3	31	Sci Total Environ	The Science of the total environment	CoQ10; Enzyme activity; Light and oxygen; Protein; Purple non...sulfur bacteria; Volatile fatty acids; Biomass; Bioreactors; Fatty Acids, Volatile; Oxygen; Proteobacteria; Ubiquinone	Peng	Lai
35108295	10.1371/journal.pone.0262497	Aerobes and phototrophs as microbial organic fertilizers: Exploring mineralization, fertilization and plant protection features.	Organic fertilizers and especially microbial biomass, also known as microbial fertilizer, can enable a paradigm shift to the conventional fertilizer-to-food chain, particularly when produced on secondary resources. Microbial fertilizers are already common practice (e.g. Bloom.. and Synagro); yet microbial fertilizer blends to align the nutrient release profile to the plant's needs are, thus far, unexplored. Moreover, most research only focuses on direct fertilization effects without considering added value properties, such as disease prevention. This study has explored three promising types of microbial fertilizers, namely dried biomass from a consortium of aerobic heterotrophic bacteria, a microalga (Arthrospira platensis) and a purple non-sulfur bacterium (Rhodobacter sphaeroides). Mineralization and nitrification experiments showed that the nitrogen mineralization profile can be tuned to the plant's needs by blending microbial fertilizers, without having toxic ammonium peaks. In a p	2022	3	1	PLoS One	PloS one	Bacteria, Aerobic; Biomass; Fertilizers; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lolium; Lycopersicon esculentum; Nitrification; Nitrogen; Nutrients	Wambacq	Eva
35073746	10.1128/mbio.03672-21	Measurement of Macromolecular Crowding in Rhodobacter sphaeroides under Different Growth Conditions.	The bacterial cytoplasm is a very crowded environment, and changes in crowding are thought to have an impact on cellular processes including protein folding, molecular diffusion and complex formation. Previous studies on the effects of crowding have generally compared cellular activity after imposition of stress. In response to different light intensities, in unstressed conditions, Rhodobacter sphaeroides changes the number of 50-nm intracytoplasmic membrane (ICM) vesicles, with the number varying from a few to over a thousand per cell. In this work, the effects of crowding induced by ICM vesicles in photoheterotrophic R. sphaeroides were investigated using a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) sensor and photoactivated localization microscopy (PALM). In low light grown cells where the cytoplasm has large numbers of ICM vesicles, the FRET probe adopts a more condensed conformation, resulting in higher FRET ratio readouts compared to high light cells with fewer ICM vesicles. T	2022	3	2	mBio	mBio	CheY; FRET; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; cytoplasmic crowding; diffusion; single molecule microscopy; vesicles	Khoo	Jia Hui
34875071	10.1093/femsle/fnab154	Iterative mutagenesis induced by atmospheric and room temperature plasma treatment under multiple selection pressures for the improvement of coenzyme Q10 production by Rhodobacter sphaeroides.	CoQ10, which has been widely applied in medicine by dietary supplement, possesses important functions in antioxidant process and bioenergy generation. Iterative mutagenesis introduced by atmospheric and room temperature plasma (ARTP) treatment was studied to improve the coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) production of Rhodobacter sphaeroides (R. sphaeroides), and multiple selection pressures including vitamin K3 (VK3), Na2S and benzoic acid (BA) were adopted for the first time. After two rounds of mutation and screening, a mutant strain R.S 17 was obtained, and the product titer was increased by 80.37%. The CoQ10 titer and cell density reached 236.7..mg L-1 and 57.09..g L-1, respectively, in the fed-batch fermentation, and the CoQ10 content was 22.1% higher than that of the parent strain. In addition, the spectral scanning results indicated the metabolic flux improvement contributing to the CoQ10 production in R.S 17, and the genetic stability was validated. Based on the iterative mutagenesis introd	2022	3	4	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	 Rhodobacter sphaeroides ; CoQ10; atmospheric and room temperature plasma; iterative mutagenesis; multiple..selections; Fermentation; Mutagenesis; Rhodobacter sphaeroides; Temperature; Ubiquinone	Wang	Yong
34709619	10.1007/978-1-0716-1720-5_12	Using Genome Scale Mutant Libraries to Identify Essential Genes.	Identification of essential genes is key to understanding the required processes and gene products of organisms under one or more conditions. Transposon sequencing (Tn-seq) has been used to predict essential genes or ones that conditionally impact fitness in a wide variety of organisms. Here, we describe the generation of genome-scale mutant libraries and the analysis of Tn-seq data to identify essential genes from cultures grown in a single condition as well as those that are conditionally important by analyzing the behavior of these mutant libraries in different growth environments. While we illustrate the approach using data derived from Tn-seq analysis of the ..-proteobacteria Rhodobacter sphaeroides and Zymomonas mobilis, the protocols and systems we describe should be generally applicable to a variety of organisms.	2022	1	5	Methods Mol Biol	Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)	Bacteria; Computational biology; Conditional fitness; Essential genes; Gene disruption; Genomics; Microbial lifestyles; Sequencing; Transposon; DNA Transposable Elements; Genes, Essential; Genome, Bacterial; Genomic Library; High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing; Mutagenesis, Insertional; Sequence Analysis	Myers	Kevin S
34490849	10.1097/j.pain.0000000000002454	Dorsal root ganglion toll-like receptor 4 signaling contributes to oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy.	Activation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord contributes to the generation of paclitaxel-related chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). Generalizability of TLR4 signaling in oxaliplatin-induced CIPN was tested here. Mechanical hypersensitivity developed in male SD rats by day 1 after oxaliplatin treatment, reached maximum intensity by day 14, and persisted through day 35. Western blot revealed an increase in TLR4 expression in the DRG of oxaliplatin at days 1 and 7 after oxaliplatin treatment. Cotreatment of rats with the TLR4 antagonist lipopolysaccharide derived from Rhodobacter sphaeroides ultrapure or with the nonspecific immunosuppressive minocycline with oxaliplatin resulted in significantly attenuated hyperalgesia on day 7 and 14 compared with rats that received oxaliplatin plus saline vehicle. Immunostaining of DRGs revealed an increase in the number of neurons expressing TLR4, its canonical downstream signal molecules 	2022	4	19	Pain	Pain	Animals; Female; Ganglia, Spinal; Hyperalgesia; Interferon-beta; Lipopolysaccharides; Male; Minocycline; Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88; Oxaliplatin; Peripheral Nervous System Diseases; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Toll-Like Receptor 4	Illias	Amina M
