patent_number	patent_title	patent_abstract
10154670	Compositions comprising Bacillus strains and methods of use to suppress the activities and growth of fungal plant pathogens	This invention provides compositions of Bacillus strains and methods for using such compositions to inhibit the activity and/or growth of fungal pathogens of plants. In one embodiment, this invention provides a composition comprising Bacillus bacteria selected from the group consisting of Brevibacillus laterosporus strain CM-3, Brevibacillus laterosporus strain CM-33, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens BCM-CM5, Bacillus licheniformis ATCC-11946, Bacillus mojavensis BCM-01, Bacillus pumilus NRRL-1875, Bacillus subtilis 10 DSM-10, Bacillus subtilis NRRL-1650, Bacillus megaterium BCM-07, Paenibacillus polymyxa DSM-36, Paenibacillus chitinolyticus DSM-11030, and combinations thereof. In another embodiment, this invention provides a method for preparing a bacterial composition comprising one or more Bacillus strains by growing Bacillus strain bacteria until the bacteria form spores, collecting said spores, and formulating said composition.
10602743	Method of inducing drought/salt tolerance using Bacillus megaterium	Provided are method of induce plant drought and/or salinity tolerance using microbes such as Bacillus, and particularly Bacillus megaterium cultures responsible for controlling plant drought and/or salinity tolerance.
10645936	Bacillus megaterium bioactive compositions and metabolites	Provided are bioactive compositions and metabolites derived from Bacillus and particularly Bacillus megaterium cultures responsible for controlling pests as well as their methods of use for controlling pests. Further provided are pesticidal Bacillus megaterium strains.
10683470	Product for cleaning, sanitizing and hygienization	Product for cleaning, sanification and hygienization, comprising a base solution with sanificant and/or hygienizing action to which probiotic bacteria and bacteriophage elements are mixed; the probiotic bacteria being preferably of the Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus megaterium and Bacillus pumilus genera, while the bacteriophage elements comprise, as an alternative or in combination, bacteriophages of the Caudavirales, Microviridae, Leviviridae, Inoviridae, Tectiviridae, Corticoviridae families.
4332898	Hybrid plasmid and process of making same	A novel chemical compound, plasmid pUC1021, which was constructed from Bacillus megaterium chromosomal DNA and plasmid pBR322. Hybrid plasmid pUC1021 contains a functional tet gene promoter, and, thus, is useful as a cloning vehicle in recombinant DNA work. For example, using well known DNA methodology, a desired gene, for example, the insulin gene, can be inserted into pUC1021 and the resulting plasmid can then be transformed into a suitable host microbe which, upon culturing, produces the desired insulin.
4427771	Assay method for amylase activity and method of producing maltose dehydrogenase for use therein	An assay method for amylase activity in a biological specimen such as serum, saliva or urine. The enzyme amylase in the specimen is used to decompose a substrate which is a glucose polymer having a modified reducing terminal glucose residue or a cyclic glucose polymer. A component of the decomposed substrate is measured as an indication of amylase activity in the specimen. The residue may be amylose, amylopectin, starch, starch hydrolyzate, an etherified reducing terminal, an esterified reducing terminal, gluconolactone or a gluconic acid residue or its derivative. Decomposed substrate assay may be effected by contacting the same with maltose dehydrogenase and NAD or NADP, whereupon the assay is performed by measuring the amount of reduced NAD or reduced NADP, by reacting the same with reduced-form hydrogen transport colorimetric reaction reagent. This reagent may be a tetrazolium salt and diaphorase, or tetrazolium salt and phenazinemethosulfate. To remove pre-existing glucose and maltose present in the specimen, the specimen may be pretreated with alpha-glucosidase or kinase in the presence of Mg.sup.++ and ATP, the kinase being for example hexokinase. The preferred maltose dehydrogenase is produced by culturing Bacillus megaterium B-0779 FERM-P No. 5662.
4542098	Production of glucose dehydrogenase and use of the resultant enzyme in the enzymatic synthesis of L-carnitine	A process for producing glucose dehydrogenase consists of cultivating a mutant strain (ATCC 39 118) of Bacillus megaterium in a culture medium and recovering the resultant glucose dehydrogenase. The latter can be used in the enzymatic production of L-carnitine consisting of subjecting 3-dehydrocarnitine to the simultaneous action of carnitine dehydrogenase, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and glucose and glucose dehydrogenase.
4554250	Method of increased production of penicillin acylase and plasmid employed therein	A method is provided for enhancing penicillin acylase production wherein a Bacillus subtilis plasmid containing an insert of a chromosomal DNA fragment of Bacillus megaterium which includes the appropriate gene for enhancing penicillin acylase production is cloned into Bacillus megaterium and the Bacillus megaterium containing the above plasmid is employed in the production of penicillin acylase. A plasmid method for forming same and host plasmid combination which are useful in the above method are also provided.
4935359	Fermentation process	Disclosed is a fermentation process for the conversion of L-sorbose to 2-keto-L-gulonic acid, which is characterized in that a mixed culture of microorganisms is used, which comprises Gluconobacter oxydans and Bacillus megaterium.
5030574	Plasmidless Lac strain of bacilus megaterium QM B1551	A plasmidless Lac mutant strain of Bacillus megaterium QM B1551 designated PV447 is provided which otherwise has substantially all of the characteristics of the parent stock. B. megaterium PV447 has been deposited at the NRRL on June 19, 1987 and been given NRRL accession No. B-18233.
5037757	Plasmidless strain of Bacillus megaterium QM B1551	A plasmidless mutant strain of Bacillus megaterium QM B1551 designataed PV361 is provided which has lost its ability to produce extracellular megacin but otherwise has substantially all of the characteristics of the parent stock. B. megaterium PV361 has been deposited at the NRRL on July 17, 1987 and been given NRRL accession No. B-18241.
5114853	Recombinant DNA, transformant containing said DNA, and process for preparing heat-stable glucose dehydrogenase by use of said transformant	A recombinant DNA replicable and expressible in Escherichia coli is disclosed which encodes glucose dehydrogenase originating from Bacillus megaterium. A DNA sequence encoding the glucose dehydrogenase is incorporated into an E. coli vector and then used to transform an E. coli host. Also disclosed are transformants and recombinant DNA incorporating thermostable glucose dehydrogenase, wherein at least one amino acid in glucose dehydrogenase at positions 96, 252, and 253 is replaced by a thermostability-conferring amino acid.
5126256	Process for the preparation of glucose dehydrogenase from Bacillus megaterium	A process for the preparation of glucose dehydrogenase from Bacillus megaterium. This invention relates to the preparation of a genetically engineered polypeptide with the biological activity of the enzyme glucose dehydrogenase, and a new DNA sequence, recombinant DNA vector, and transformed microorganism therefor.
5241064	Enzymatic process for preparing optically active 3-substituted azetidinones	Preparation of optically active 3-substituted azetidinones of the formula (I) ##STR1## in which R.sup.1 is a hydroxy-protective group wherein an allylic alcohol of the formula (II) ##STR2## is acylated, then subjected to asymmetric enzymatic hydrolysis yielding the R-allylic alcohol. The hydroxyl group is protected and then stereoselectively reacted with an amine which is subsequently cyclized to yield the desired 3-substituted azetidinone. Two new species of microorganisms have been isolated, Pimelobacter sp. No. 1254 and Bacillus megaterium No. 1253 which exhibit stereoselective esterase activity.
5250415	Process for the preparation of glucose dehydrogenase from Bacillus megaterium	A process for the preparation of glucose dehydrogenase from Bacillus megaterium. This invention relates to the preparation of a genetically engineered polypeptide with the biological activity of the enzyme glucose dehydrogenase and a new DNA sequence, recombinant DNA vector, and transformed microrganism therefor.
5403583	Bacillus megetarium ATCC 55000 and method of use thereof to control R. solani	The present invention relates to bacteria which can be used as biological control agents for soybean diseases such as those caused by the fungus Rhizoctonia solani. These biological control agents are specific strains of Bacillus megaterium and can also be used for enhancement of soybean plant growth and yield, as well as for the production of antibiotics directed toward crop fungal diseases.
5624844	Process for demetalizing a fossil fuel	The invention relates to a method of removing metals from a fossil fuel comprising the steps of contacting the fossil fuel with an oxygenase which degrades porphyrin molecules under conditions suitable for the removal of the metals from the fossil fuel; and separating the metals from the fossil fuel. Preferred embodiments of the oxygenase include heme oxygenase and cytochrome C reductase, such as cytochrome C reductase from Bacillus megaterium, Catharanthus roseuse, Escherichia coli, animal cells, plant cells or yeast cells. The cytochrome C reductase can be contacted with the fossil fuel in an aqueous medium as a substantially cell-free preparation or cell preparation. In one embodiment of the invention, the metals are recovered from the resulting metal containing stream.
5726056	Fuel product produced by demetalizing a fossil fuel with an enzyme	The invention relates to a method of removing metals from a fossil fuel comprising the steps of contacting the fossil fuel with a biocatalyst selected from the group consisting of an enzyme which degrades porphyrin molecules under conditions suitable for the removal of the metals from the fossil fuel; and separating the metals from the fossil fuel. Preferred embodiments of the biocatalyst include heme oxygenase and cytochrome C reductase, such as cytochrome C reductase from Bacillus megaterium, Catharanthus roseuse, Escherichia coli, animal cells, plant cells or yeast cells. The cytochrome C reductase can be contacted with the fossil fuel in an aqueous medium as a substantially cell-free preparation or cell preparation. In one embodiment of the invention, the metals are recovered from the resulting metal containing stream.
6060274	Extracellular expression of cellulose binding domains (CBD) using Bacillus	The present invention relates to Bacillus hosts transformed with a vector comprising a DNA sequence encoding for a cellulose binding domain (CBD) and capable of expressing said sequence, the expressed polypeptide protein consisting essentially of one or more non-catalytic domains; the cellulose binding domain having a molecular weight in the range of from 4 kD to 35 kD and being obtainable from a microorganism or from a plant, preferably from a bacterium or a fungus; the Bacillus host e.g. being one of the species Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus licheniformis, Bacillus megaterium, Bacillus stearothermophilos, and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens; and a Bacillus expression vector carrying an inserted DNA sequence encoding for a cellulose binding domain; and a method for producing a cellulose binding domain polypeptide in a Bacillus host cell.
6150140	Process for the biotransformation of colchicinoid compounds into the corresponding 3-glycosyl derivatives	Colchicinoid compounds are transformed into the corresponding 3-O-glycosyl derivatives by means of Bacillus megaterium strains.
6190888	Process for making riboflavin glucoside	A process for producing riboflavin glucoside comprises cultivating a microorganism belonging to the genus Bacillus, such as Bacillus brevis, Bacillus cereus, Bacillus circulans, Bacillus coagulans, Bacillus licheniformis, Bacillus megaterium, Bacillus pumilus or Bacillus subtilis, which is capable of producing riboflavin glucosides, in an aqueous medium containing a starch under aerobic conditions. Amongst the preferred strains are Bacillus subtilis RB50::[pRF69]60Ade+ and Bacillus subtilis RB50::[pRF69]60[pRF93]120Ade+. The so-produced riboflavin glucoside can be used as a more soluble substitute for riboflavin to prepare clear drinks and injection solutions.
6599503	Biocontrol of plant diseases caused by Fusarium species with novel isolates of Bacillus megaterium	Microbiological agents are provided for control of certain diseases of wheat and other cereals caused by Fusarium species, including Fusarium head blight of wheat and other cereals. These agents can also improve yield of wheat plants and cereals. The agents are novel isolates of Pantoea agglomerans and of Bacillus megaterium that exhibit the property of inhibiting fungal pathogens, particularly those produced by Fusarium species.Biocontrol compositions, and methods of using them to control plant pathogen development on wheat and cereal plants and for increasing plant yield, are also provided. The biocontrol compositions comprise a mixture of at least one microorganism selected from the group consisting of Pantoea agglomerans and Bacillus megaterium.
6649401	Gram-positive fatty acid degrader	The invention discloses a Gram-positive microorganism, Bacillus megaterium, that effectively and efficiently degrades fats, oils and grease. A composition comprising said microorganism and a method for degrading fatty acids and grease are also disclosed.
6818211	Gram-positive fatty acid degrader	The invention discloses a Gram-positive microorganism, Bacillus megaterium that effectively and efficiently degrades fats, oils and grease. A composition comprising said microorganism and a method for degrading fatty acids and grease are also disclosed. Availability of glycerol to the biodegrading microorganism was discovered to enhance biodegradation.
6835820	Polyhydroxyalkanoate biosynthesis associated proteins and coding region in bacillus megaterium	A 7,916 base pair nucleic acid fragment from Bacillus megaterium is disclosed. The fragment encodes five proteins, PhaP, PhaQ, PhaR, PhaB, 09 and PhaC, shown or inferred to be involved in the biosynthesis of polyhydroxyalkanoate materials.
6939688	Biological addition to organic-mineral fertilizers	The biological addition to organic-mineral fertilizers contains two bacteria associations taken in the ratio 1–2:0.5–1, with one of the associations containing Azotobacter chroococcum and Beijerinckia fluminensis nitrogen binding bacteria in the ratio 1–0.5:1–0.5 and the other association containing Bacillus megaterium and Bacillus mucilaginosis bacteria, which decompose phosphorus- and potassium containing compounds, in the ratio 1–5:0.5–2, as well as a preservative and micro- and macroelements.
7074447	Antimicrobial composition comprising potassium sorbate and LAE	The invention relates to a novel composition with antimicrobial activity. It is in the food industry a well-known method to use the product L-arginine, Na-lauroyl-ethylester monohydrochloride (LAE). This product is well tolerated and suitable for use in the preservation of all perishable food products. The action of LAE can be further improved by combining the product with a second component selected from the group consisting of potassium sorbate, sodium sorbate and sorbic acid. The weight ratio of LAE to the second component is preferably in the range of 1:50 to 50:1. The combination of the two products leads to a synergistic combined activity against such microorganisms as Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus megaterium, Citrobacter intermedium, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Candida albicans, Penicillium camemberti and Cladosporium cladosporioides.
7118739	Biocontrol of plant diseases caused by Fusarium species with novel isolates of Pantoea agglomerans	Microbiological agents are provided for control of certain diseases of wheat and other cereals caused by Fusarium species, including Fusarium head blight of wheat and other cereals. These agents can also improve yield of wheat plants and cereals. The agents are novel isolates of Pantoea agglomerans and of Bacillus megaterium that exhibit the property of inhibiting fungal pathogens, particularly those produced by Fusarium species.Biocontrol compositions, and methods of using them to control plant pathogen development on wheat and cereal plants and for increasing plant yield, are also provided. The biocontrol compositions comprise a mixture of at least one microorganism selected from the group consisting of Pantoea agglomerans and Bacillus megaterium.
7524664	Regio- and enantioselective alkane hydroxylation with modified cytochrome P450	Cytochrome P450 BM-3 from Bacillus megaterium was engineered using a combination of directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis to hydroxylate linear alkanes regio- and enantioselectively using atmospheric dioxygen as an oxidant. Mutant 9-10A-A328V hydroxylates octane primarily at the 2-positio to form S-2-octanol (40% ee). Another mutant, 1-12G, hydroxylates alkanes larger than hexane primarily at the 2-position, but forms R-2-alcohols (40-55% ee). These biocatalysts are highly active for alkane substrates and support thousands of product turnovers. These regio- and enantio-selectivities are retained in whole-cell biotransformations with E. coli, where the engineered P450s can be expressed at high levels and the expensive cofactor is supplied endogenously.
7842494	Micro-organisms for the treatment of soil and process for obtaining them	The present invention relates to product(s) containing living microorganism(s) suitable for soil treatment, microorganisms multiplying under different climatic and natural circumstances, as well as procedures for the production of the products, and procedures for the treatment of the soil and plants with the products. More particularly, the invention relates to a procedure for preparing the products from any of the microorganisms specified below, or from the mixture thereof. Furthermore, the invention relates to a procedure for the creation of the cultures of the microorganisms to be used. The subject invention also pertains to the microorganisms themselves. More particularly, the invention relates to a procedure for the treatment of the soil and the plants with a product containing at least one of the microorganisms selected from Azospirillum brasilense ssp. SW51 (NCAIM /P/ B 001293), Azotobacter vinelandii ssp. M657 (NCAIM /P/B 001292), Pseudomonas fluorescens var. SW11 (NCAIM /P/ B 001296), Bacillus polymyxa var. SW17 (NCAIM /P/ B 001295), Bacillus megaterium var. M326 (NCAIM /P/ B 001291), Micrococcus roseus ssp. A21 (NCAIM /P/B 001294), Bradyrhizobium japonicum var. PH25 (NCAIM /P/ B 001302), and Streptomyces albus var. 0003 LP (NCAIM /P/ B 001301), and furthermore the products multiplying and existing in the environment of the plant in question, containing the listed microorganisms and their production.
7863030	Regio- and enantioselective alkane hydroxylation with modified cytochrome P450	Cytochrome P450 BM-3 from Bacillus megaterium was engineered using a combination of directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis to hydroxylate linear alkanes regio- and enantioselectively using atmospheric dioxygen as an oxidant. Mutant 9-10A-A328V hydroxylates octane primarily at the 2-positio to form S-2-octanol (40% ee). Another mutant, 1-12G, hydroxylates alkanes larger than hexane primarily at the 2-position, but forms R-2-alcohols (40-55% ee). These biocatalysts are highly active for alkane substrates and support thousands of product turnovers. These regio- and enantio-selectivities are retained in whole-cell biotransformations with E. coli, where the engineered P450s can be expressed at high levels and the expensive cofactor is supplied endogenously.
8343744	Regio- and enantioselective alkane hydroxylation with modified cytochrome P450	Cytochrome P450 BM-3 from Bacillus megaterium was engineered using a combination of directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis to hydroxylate linear alkanes regio- and enantioselectively using atmospheric dioxygen as an oxidant. Mutant 9-10A-A328V hydroxylates octane primarily at the 2-position to form S-2-octanol (40% ee). Another mutant, 1-12G, hydroxylates alkanes larger than hexane primarily at the 2-position, but forms R-2-alcohols (40-55% ee). These biocatalysts are highly active for alkane substrates and support thousands of product turnovers. These regio- and enantio-selectivities are retained in whole-cell biotransformations with E. coli, where the engineered P450s can be expressed at high levels and the expensive cofactor is supplied endogenously.
8741616	Regio- and enantioselective alkane hydroxylation with modified cytochrome P450	Cytochrome P450 BM-3 from Bacillus megaterium was engineered using a combination of directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis to hydroxylate linear alkanes regio- and enantioselectively using atmospheric dioxygen as an oxidant. Mutant 9-10A-A328V hydroxylates octane primarily at the 2-positio to form S-2-octanol (40% ee). Another mutant, 1-12G, hydroxylates alkanes larger than hexane primarily at the 2-position, but forms R-2-alcohols (40-55% ee). These biocatalysts are highly active for alkane substrates and support thousands of product turnovers. These regio- and enantio-selectivities are retained in whole-cell biotransformations with E. coli, where the engineered P450s can be expressed at high levels and the expensive cofactor is supplied endogenously.
8801864	Cleaning compositions	An aqueous composition is disclosed, comprising at least one strain of Class 1 Bacillus bacterial spores, selected from Bacillus Cirulans, Bacillus Megaterium, Bacillus Licheniformis, Bacillus Pumilus, Bacillus Sphaericus, Bacillus Subtilis sub species 10144 and Bacillus Subtilis sub species 8646, a terpene and one or more surfactants. The terpene is preferably d-limonene. A method for cleaning surfaces is also disclosed, which method comprises deploying an aqueous composition comprising at least one strain of Class 1 Bacillus bacterial spores, selected from Bacillus Cirulans, Bacillus Megaterium, Bacillus Lichenforms, Bacillus Pumilus, Bacillus Sphaericus, Bacillus Subtilis sub species 10144 and Bacillus Subtilis sub species 8646, a terpene and one or more surfactants to a surface.
8927236	Process for producing poly-<U+03B3>-glutamic acid having high optical purity	It is an objective of the present invention to provide a process for efficiently producing poly-<U+03B3>-glutamic acid having a high L-glutamic acid content and excellent quality. The process for producing poly-<U+03B3>-glutamic acid according to the present invention is characterized in using a bacterium belonging to species Bacillus megaterium.
9084428	Bacillus megaterium bioactive compositions and metabolites	Provided are bioactive compositions and metabolites derived from Bacillus and particularly Bacillus megaterium cultures responsible for controlling pests as well as their methods of use for controlling pests. Further provided are pesticidal Bacillus megaterium strains.
9145549	Regio- and enantioselective alkane hydroxylation with modified cytochrome P450	Cytochrome P450 BM-3 from Bacillus megaterium was engineered using a combination of directed evolution and site-directed mutagenesis to hydroxylate linear alkanes regio- and enantioselectively using atmospheric dioxygen as an oxidant. Mutant 9-10A-A328V hydroxylates octane primarily at the 2-position to form S-2-octanol (40% ee). Another mutant, 1-12G, hydroxylates alkanes larger than hexane primarily at the 2-position, but forms R-2-alcohols (40-55% ee). These biocatalysts are highly active for alkane substrates and support thousands of product turnovers. These regio- and enantio-selectivities are retained in whole-cell biotransformations with E. coli, where the engineered P450s can be expressed at high levels and the expensive cofactor is supplied endogenously.
9163270	Process for the production of hyaluronic acid in Escherichia coli or Bacillus megaterium	A method of producing hyaluronic acid (HA) in Escherichia coli and Bacillus megaterium through episomal plasmid vectors wherein the gene is under the control of strong promoter T7, preferably under the control of strong promoter T7 of bacteriophage T7, and a system for the selection of stable bacterial strains producing high levels of hyaluronic acid, are provided.
9642370	Bacteria and method for improving plant health and growth	This application describes and claims a method of improving the health and vigor of a plant, comprising administering to the plant an effective amount of a bacterial composition which comprises a botanically compatible vehicle and an isolated bacterial strain selected from the group consisting of Bacillus megaterium PT6, Bacillus subtilis PT26A, Paenibacillus sp. ATY16, and any combination thereof. Improvement in health and vigor is one or more of the following: a) improved resistance to disease; b) improved ability to defend against disease; c) reduction of disease symptoms; d) faster growth; e) improved crop productivity; f) improved crop quality; g) improved seed germination; h) improved seedling emergence; or any combination thereof. Isolated bacterial strains and mixtures of bacteria are provided, as well as compositions comprising the isolated bacterial strains.
9695453	Process for the production of hyaluronic acid in Escherichia coli or bacillus megaterium	A method of producing hyaluronic acid (HA) in Escherichia coli and Bacillus megaterium through episomal plasmid vectors wherein the gene is under the control of strong promoter T7, preferably under the control of strong promoter T7 of bacteriophage T7, and a system for the selection of stable bacterial strains producing high levels of hyaluronic acid, are provided.
9801386	Bacillus megaterium bioactive compositions and metabolites	Provided are bioactive compositions and metabolites derived from Bacillus and particularly Bacillus megaterium cultures responsible for controlling pests as well as their methods of use for controlling pests. Further provided are pesticidal Bacillus megaterium strains.
9828581	Efficient bottom-improving bacillus and compound bottom-improving microbial agent prepared from the same and applications thereof	The applicant provides a strain of Bacillus tequilensis ZSGD5, with accession number of the deposit of CCTCC NO.: M 2014004, deposited at the China Center for Type Culture Collection, Wuhan University, Wuhan City, China on Jan. 6, 2014. The applicant also provides a compound microecological Bacillus agent. The compound microbial agent comprises the following bacterial species: Bacillus tequilensis, Type I Bacillus subtilis, Type II Bacillus subtilis, Type I Bacillus licheniformis, Type II Bacillus licheniformis, Bacillus pumilus, and Bacillus megaterium. The Bacillus tequilensis provided in the present invention has an efficient water bottom cleaning capability, and can rapidly decompose and decrease the sludge at the bottom of a pond and effectively improve environmental waters for such phenomena as black water, and turbid water, so the Bacillus tequilensis can be used for water environment treatment in aquaculture and for urban wastewater treatment.
