pmid	doi	title	abstract	year	month	day	jabbrv	journal	keywords	lastname	firstname
11322700	10.1016/s0168-1605(00)00502-x	Dynamics of the microbial community responsible for traditional sour cassava starch fermentation studied by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and quantitative rRNA hybridization.	The microbial community developing during the spontaneous fermentation of sour cassava starch was investigated by cultivation-independent methods. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of partially amplified 16S rDNA followed by sequencing of the most intense bands showed that the dominant organisms were all lactic acid bacteria (LAB), mainly close relatives of Bifidobacterium minimum, Lactococcus lactis, Streptococcus sp., Enterococcus saccharolyticus and Lactobacillus plantarum., Close relatives of Lb. panis, Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Ln. citreum were also found. A complementary analysis using hybridization of 16S rRNA with phylogenetic probes was necessary to detect the presence of the recently discovered species Lb. manihotivorans. Although it represented up to 13% of the total lactic acid bacteria of sour cassava starch, this species could not be detected by DGGE as the PCR product migrated to the same position as Lc. lactis. In addition, it was shown that a strong pH	2001	5	17	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Acetates; Electrophoresis, Agar Gel; Fermentation; Hybridization, Genetic; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactates; Lactobacillaceae; Manihot; Microscopy, Electron, Scanning; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Starch; Streptococcaceae	Ampe	F
11252516	10.1016/s0168-1605(00)00447-5	Phenotypic and molecular identification and clustering of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts from wheat (species Triticum durum and Triticum aestivum) sourdoughs of Southern Italy.	The microflora of 25 wheat sourdoughs from the Apulia region, Southern Italy, was characterized. The sourdoughs were mainly produced from Triticum durum wheat. The number of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts ranged from ca. log 7.5 to log 9.3 colony forming units (cfu)/g and from log 5.5 to log 8.4 cfu/g, respectively. About 38% of the 317 isolates of lactic acid bacteria were identified by conventional physiological and biochemical tests. Phenotypic identification was confirmed by 16S rDNA and 16S/23S rRNA spacer region PCR. Overall, 30% of the isolates were identified as Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, 20% as Lb. alimentarius, 14% as Lb. brevis, 12% as Leuconostoc citreum, 7% as Lb. plantarum, 6% as Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis, 4% as Lb. fermentum and Lb. acidophilus, 2% as Weissella confusa and 1% as Lb. delbrueckii subsp. delbrueckii. Some of these species have not been previously isolated from sourdoughs. Since bakers yeast is widely used in sourdough production, Saccharomyces 	2001	10	18	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bread; Cluster Analysis; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; Fermentation; Lactobacillus; Phenotype; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Streptococcaceae; Triticum	Corsetti	A
11246902	10.1016/s0168-1605(00)00417-7	The microbiology of South African traditional fermented milks.	A total of 15 samples of traditional fermented milk were collected from individual households in South Africa and Namibia. Lactic acid bacteria dominated the microflora of these samples, especially the genera Leuconostoc, Lactococcus and Lactobacillus. Other groups identified included pyogenic streptococci and enterococci. The dominant lactococci species was Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis. Eighty-three percent of the leuconostoc isolates were identified as Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. dextranicum. Other species identified included Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis and Lactobacillus plantarum.	2001	5	17	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Animals; Cattle; Colony Count, Microbial; Enterococcus; Female; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillus; Lactococcus; Leuconostoc; Milk; Namibia; South Africa; Streptococcaceae; Streptococcus	Beukes	E M
11157255	10.1128/AEM.67.2.858-864.2001	Identification of Mur, an atypical peptidoglycan hydrolase derived from Leuconostoc citreum.	A gene encoding a protein homologous to known bacterial N-acetyl-muramidases has been cloned from Leuconostoc citreum by a PCR-based approach. The encoded protein, Mur, consists of 209 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 23,821 Da including a 31-amino-acid putative signal peptide. In contrast to most of the other known peptidoglycan hydrolases, L. citreum Mur protein does not contain amino acid repeats involved in cell wall binding. The purified L. citreum Mur protein was shown to exhibit peptidoglycan-hydrolyzing activity by renaturing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. An active chimeric protein was constructed by fusion of L. citreum Mur to the C-terminal repeat-containing domain (cA) of AcmA, the major autolysin of Lactococcus lactis. Expression of the Mur-cA fusion protein was able to complement an acmA mutation in L. lactis; normal cell separation after cell division was restored by Mur-cA expression.	2001	7	5	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Cloning, Molecular; Escherichia coli; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Muramidase; N-Acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine Amidase; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Cibik	R
12074051	10.1038/sj/jim/7000224	Characterization of a cell-associated inulosucrase from a novel source: a Leuconostoc citreum strain isolated from Pozol, a fermented corn beverage of Mayan origin.	A cell-associated fructosyltransferase was extracted from a novel source, a strain of Leuconostoc citreum isolated from Pozol, a Mexican traditional fermented corn beverage, where lactic microflora are partially responsible for the transformation process. The enzyme is associated with the cell wall. It was characterized both in its cell-associated insoluble form and after separation by urea treatment. The fructosyltransferase has a molecular mass of 170 kDa, the highest reported for this type of enzyme, and in its insoluble form is highly specific for polymer synthesis, with low fructose transferred to maltose and lactose added to the reaction medium (acceptor reactions). The synthesized polymer has an inulin-like structure with beta2-1 glycosidic linkages, as demonstrated by 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Bacterial inulosucrases have only been reported in Streptococcus mutans.	2002	10	18	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Beverages; Fermentation; Glycosyltransferases; Hexosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Weight; Solubility; Zea mays	Olivares-Illana	V
14574101	10.1023/a:1026050410724	Novel Leuconostoc citreum starter culture system for the fermentation of kimchi, a fermented cabbage product.	To determine the dominant microorganisms involved in kimchi fermentation and to examine their effect on kimchi fermentation, we randomly isolated and characterized 120 lactic acid bacteria from kimchi during a 5-day fermentation at 15 degrees C. Leuconostoc citreum was dominant during the early and mid-phases of kimchi fermentation whereas Lactobacillus sake/Lactobacillus curvatus or Lactobacillus brevis were found during later stages. Eighty-two out of 120 isolates (68%) were identified as Leuconostoc citreum by means of a polyphasic method, including 16S rDNA sequencing and DNA/DNA hybridization. A few Weissella confusa-like strains were also isolated during the mid-phase of the fermentation. Strain IH22, one of the Leuconostoc citreum isolates from kimchi, was used as an additive to evaluate growth and acid production in kimchi fermentation. This strain was consistently over 95% of the population in IH22-treated kimchi over a 5-day fermentation, while heterogeneous lactic acid bacte	2004	2	2	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek	Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Brassica; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Choi	In-Kwon
12788779	10.1128/AEM.69.6.3668-3671.2003	Behavior of psychrotrophic lactic acid bacteria isolated from spoiling cooked meat products.	Three kinds of lactic acid bacteria were isolated from spoiling cooked meat products stored below 10 degrees C. They were identified as Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis, and Leuconostoc citreum. All three strains grew well in MRS broth at 10 degrees C. In particular, L. mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides and L. citreum grew even at 4 degrees C, and their doubling times were 23.6 and 51.5 h, respectively. On the other hand, although the bacteria were initially below the detection limit (&lt;10 CFU/g) in model cooked meat products, the bacterial counts increased to 10(8) CFU/g at 10 degrees C after 7 to 12 days.	2003	10	1	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Animals; Cold Temperature; Colony Count, Microbial; Food Contamination; Hot Temperature; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Meat Products; Swine	Hamasaki	Yoshikatsu
12775698	10.1128/JB.185.12.3606-3612.2003	Molecular characterization of inulosucrase from Leuconostoc citreum: a fructosyltransferase within a glucosyltransferase.	The gene coding for inulosucrase in Leuconostoc citreum CW28, islA, was cloned, sequenced, and expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme catalyzed inulin synthesis from sucrose like the wild-type enzyme. Inulosucrase presents an unusual structure: its N-terminal region is similar to the variable region of glucosyltransferases, its catalytic domain is similar to fructosyltransferases from various microorganisms, and its C-terminal domain presents similarity to the glucan binding domain from alternansucrase, a glucosyltransferase from Leuconostoc mesenteroides NRRL B-1355. From sequence comparison, it was found that this fructosyltransferase is a natural chimeric enzyme resulting from the substitution of the catalytic domain of alternansucrase by a fructosyltransferase. Two different forms of the islA gene truncated in the C-terminal glucan binding domain were successfully expressed in E. coli and retained their ability to synthesize inulin but lost thermal stability. This is	2003	7	7	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Amino Acid Sequence; Binding Sites; Escherichia coli; Glucans; Glucosyltransferases; Hexosyltransferases; Inulin; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Recombinant Proteins; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Olivares-Illana	Vanesa
15212790	10.1016/j.femsle.2004.05.029	A new vector, pGID052, for genetic transfer in Oenococcus oeni.	Despite the large number of techniques available for the transformation of bacteria, several species are still resistant to the introduction of foreign DNA. Oenococcus oeni are among the organisms that are particularly refractory to transformation. However, conjugal experiments from Lactococcus lactis to O. oeni with a new plasmid, pGID052, were performed via mobilization with success. This plasmid, a derivative of pORI19, encompasses: (i) the oriT of pIP501, which permitted the transfer to O. oeni, (ii) the replication genes of a native Leuconostoc citreum plasmid. Frequencies of 10(-7) conjugants per recipient were found. The transfer did not affect the structure of this low-copy-number plasmid. Moreover, pGID052 seems segregationally stable and could be used in the future as an expression vector.	2004	8	24	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Alcoholic Beverages; Conjugation, Genetic; Gene Dosage; Genetic Vectors; Gram-Positive Cocci; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Plasmids	Beltramo	Charlotte
15168557	10.3358/shokueishi.45.25	Detection of Leuconostoc strains at a meat processing plant using polymerase chain reaction.	To simplify the labor-intensive conventional routine testing of samples to detect Leuconostoc at a meat processing plant, we developed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers specific for Leuconostoc from 16S rRNA gene sequences. These primers did not detect other common lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus plantarum, Lact. sake, Lact. fermentum, Lact. acidophilus and Weissella viridescens. PCR with this primer detected all Leuconostoc species tested (Leu. mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides, Leu. pseudomesenteroides, Leu. carnosum, Leu. lactic, Leu. citreum, Leu. amelibiosum, Leu. gelidum), except for Leu. fallax, and no other lactic acid bacteria on agarose gel electrophoresis. The method could identify areas contaminated with Leuconostoc in a large-scale industrial meat processing plant. Of 69 samples analyzed, 34 were positive for Leuconostoc according to the conventional culture method (isolation of LAB producing dextran) and PCR, whereas 29 were negative according to both. S	2004	7	8	Shokuhin Eiseigaku Zasshi	Shokuhin eiseigaku zasshi. Journal of the Food Hygienic Society of Japan	DNA Primers; Food Contamination; Leuconostoc; Meat-Packing Industry; Polymerase Chain Reaction	Goto	Seitaro
15063498	10.1016/j.femsle.2004.02.020	Production of phenyllactic acid by lactic acid bacteria: an approach to the selection of strains contributing to food quality and preservation.	The ability of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) to produce phenyllactic (PLA) and 4-hydroxy-phenyllactic (OH-PLA) acids, metabolites involved in food quality and preservation, has been evaluated by HPLC analysis in 29 LAB strains belonging to 12 species widely used in the production of fermented foods. Metabolite production was demonstrated for all strains of the species Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus alimentarius, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, Lactobacillus hilgardii, Leuconostoc citreum, and for some strains of Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides. Strains were distinguished by analysis of variance in three groups including 15 strains that produced both metabolites (0.16-0.46 mM PLA and 0.07-0.29 mM OH-PLA), five strains accumulating in culture only PLA (0.17-0.57 mM) and nine non-producer strains (&lt; or = 0.10 mM PLA and &lt; or = 0.02 mM OH-PLA). Improvement of phenyllactic acid production 	2004	6	9	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Arsenicals; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Food Preservation; Lactates; Lactobacillus; Tyrosine	Valerio	Francesca
16233780	10.1263/jbb.99.216	Monitoring the lactic acid bacterial diversity during shochu fermentation by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.	The presence of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) during shochu fermentation was monitored by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and by bacteriological culturing. No LAB were detected from fermented mashes by PCR-DGGE using a universal bacterial PCR primer set. However, PCR-DGGE using a new primer specific for the 16S rDNA of Lactococcus, Streptococcus, Tetragenococcus, Enterococcus, and Vagococcus and two primers specific for the 16S rDNA of Lactobacillus, Pediococcus, Leuconostoc, and Weissella revealed that Enterococcus faecium, Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus nagelii, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactococcus lactis, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, and Weissella cibaria inhabited in shochu mashes. It was also found that the LAB community composition during shochu fermentation changed after the main ingredient and water were added during the fermentation process. Therefore, we confirmed that PCR-DGGE using all three primers specific fo	2005	11	15	J Biosci Bioeng	Journal of bioscience and bioengineering	Bacteria, Aerobic; Colony Count, Microbial; Comet Assay; Lactic Acid; Nucleic Acid Denaturation; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Wine	Endo	Akihito
16181692	10.1016/j.mimet.2005.07.018	Application of reverse transcriptase PCR-based T-RFLP to perform semi-quantitative analysis of metabolically active bacteria in dairy fermentations.	A method consisting of reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR amplification of 16S rRNA from the total microbial community, coupled with T-RFLP, was optimized for semi-quantitative characterization of the metabolically active population in defined strain cultures of Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis and Leuconostoc citreum, two mesophilic lactic acid bacteria (LAB) species routinely used in cheese manufacture. The set of PCR primers selected efficiently amplified the 16S rRNA from both bacterial species. The digestion of the PCR products with DdeI yielded different terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) for each species. Nevertheless, additional T-RFs due to formation of chimeric molecules and pseudo-T-RFs derived from partly single-stranded 16S rRNA amplicons were observed in both species, although in minor amounts. Twenty PCR cycles were determined as the optimum to minimize the presence of artifactual fragments and to avoid underestimation of populations due to the saturation effect on DNA qua	2006	7	7	J Microbiol Methods	Journal of microbiological methods	Animals; Cheese; Culture Media; DNA Primers; DNA, Bacterial; Dairying; Fermentation; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Milk; Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction	S..nchez	Jorge I
16168579	10.1016/j.femsle.2005.08.012	Biodiversity of lactic acid bacteria in Moroccan soft white cheese (Jben).	The bacterial diversity occurring in traditional Moroccan soft white cheese, produced in eight different regions in Morocco, was studied. A total of 164 lactic acid bacteria were isolated, purified and identified by whole-cell protein fingerprinting and rep-PCR genomic fingerprinting. The majority of the strains belonged to the genera Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc and Enterococcus. Sixteen species were identified: Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus buchneri, Lactococcus lactis, Lactococcus garvieae, Lactococcus raffinolactis, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Leuconostoc citreum, Eterococcus durans, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Enterococcus saccharominimus and Streptococcus sp.	2006	1	18	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Biodiversity; Cheese; DNA Fingerprinting; DNA, Bacterial; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillus; Lactococcus; Leuconostoc; Morocco; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Ouadghiri	Mouna
16145549		Molecular analysis of colonized bacteria in a human newborn infant gut.	The complex ecosystem of intestinal microflora is estimated to harbor approximately 400 different microbial species, mostly bacteria. However, studies on bacterial colonization have mostly been based on culturing methods, which only detect a small fraction of the whole microbiotic ecosystem of the gut. To clarify the initial acquisition and subsequent colonization of bacteria in an infant within the few days after birth, phylogenetic analysis was performed using 16S rDNA sequences from the DNA isolated from feces on the 1st, 3rd, and 6th day. 16S rDNA libraries were constructed with the amplicons of PCR conditions at 30 cycles and 50 degrees c annealing temperature. Nine independent libraries were produced by the application of three sets of primers (set A, set B, and set C) combined with three fecal samples for day 1, day 3, and day 6 of life. Approximately 220 clones (76.7%) of all 325 isolated clones were characterized as known species, while other 105 clones (32.3%) were characteri	2005	10	18	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Bacteria; Cloning, Molecular; DNA, Bacterial; Ecosystem; Feces; Female; Gene Library; Humans; Infant, Newborn; Intestines; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Park	Hee-Kyung
15992614	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2004.12.010	Analysis of kimchi microflora using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.	A polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) technique was used to determine the microfloral composition during the fermentation of kimchi, a traditional Korean fermented vegetable food. The kimchi was fermented at 10 degrees C or 20 degrees C for 30 or 20 days, respectively. DGGE of the partially amplified 16S rDNA was performed and the most intense bands sequenced. The application of this culture-independent molecular technique determined that the lactic acid bacteria Weissella confusa, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactobacillus sakei, and Lactobacillus curvatus were the main microorganisms responsible for kimchi fermentation.	2005	10	4	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Brassica; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Electrophoresis, Agar Gel; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Humans; Lactobacillaceae; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity; Streptococcaceae; Temperature; Time Factors	Lee	Jung-Sook
15904957	10.1016/j.plasmid.2005.03.003	pIH01, a small cryptic plasmid from Leuconostoc citreum IH3.	A small cryptic plasmid pIH01 from Leuconostoc citreum IH3 was characterized. This 1.8-kb sized plasmid contains single open reading frame that encodes a RepC class protein (342 amino acids) and a conserved pT181-type double strand origin, suggesting a rolling circle replication mode. This putative replicase protein shows the highest similarity to a replicase from pFR18 plasmid of Leuconostoc mesenteroides FR52 (64% identity), one of the pT181-type rolling circle plasmid family and contains a strictly conserved RepC-type active site sequence of pT181 family. A shuttle vector that was developed on the basis of this cryptic plasmid by insertion of both erythromycin resistance gene (ermC) from pE194 and Escherichia coli ColE1 origin was able to transform Leuconostoc strains, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Lactococcus lactis. Therefore, pIH01 derivative plasmids might be useful for the manipulation of Leuconostoc strains.	2005	12	7	Plasmid	Plasmid	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Conserved Sequence; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Erythromycin; Genetic Vectors; Lactobacillus plantarum; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Plasmids; Replication Origin; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Transformation, Bacterial	Park	Junghyun
17109058	10.1007/s10482-006-9128-0	Structural and functional features of fructansucrases present in Leuconostoc mesenteroides ATCC 8293.	Glycosyltransferases produced by Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides ATCC 8293 (equivalent to NRRL B-1118) were identified. Two glucansucrases and one fructansucrases were observed in batch culture while levC and levL genes, corresponding to two fructansucrases, were isolated from information obtained from the released draft sequence of this Leuconostoc strain genome and cloned in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzymes were shown to be fructansucrases producing a polymer identified by NMR as levan, confirming our recent report stating that these are also mosaic levansucrases bearing structural features of glucansucrases in the amino and carboxy terminal regions, as is also the case of inulosucrase (IslA) from Leuconostoc citreum CW28 and levansucrase (LevS) from L. mesenteroides NRRL B-512F. The recombinant levansucrase LevC was purified and characterized in terms of pH, temperature, and kinetic properties. The enzyme exhibits Michaelis-Menten kinetic properties with a K(	2007	8	6	Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek	Antonie van Leeuwenhoek	Amino Acid Sequence; Carrier Proteins; Computational Biology; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Fructans; Hexosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Hydrolysis; Kinetics; Lectins; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Sequence Data; Raffinose; Sequence Analysis, Protein; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid; Substrate Specificity; Sucrose; Temperature	Olvera	Clarita
16632262	10.1016/j.gene.2006.02.007	Identification and functional characterization of levS, a gene encoding for a levansucrase from Leuconostoc mesenteroides NRRL B-512 F.	A Leuconostoc mesenteroides NRRL B-512 F levansucrase gene, (levS), was isolated, sequenced and cloned in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme was shown to be a fructosyltransferase producing a polymer identified by (13)C-NMR as levan. Based on sequence analysis, we found that this levansucrase is a mosaic protein, bearing structural features of glucosyltransferases in the amino and carboxy terminal regions similarly to inulosucrase from Leuconostoc citreum. The phylogenetic analysis of the C-terminal region domain of levansucrases from L. mesenteroides demonstrates that they group together into a novel putative sub-family of genes and evolved long before all other glucosyltransferases, while their catalytic domain structure is species related.	2006	8	18	Gene	Gene	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Cloning, Molecular; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Hexosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Recombinant Proteins; Sequence Homology, Amino Acid	Morales-Arrieta	Sandra
16553862	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2006.00186.x	Microbial population dynamics of kimchi, a fermented cabbage product.	Lactic acid bacteria are known to perform significant roles in the fermentation of kimchi, a fermented cabbage product. However, the microbial population dynamics inherent to kimchi fermentation remain to be clearly elucidated. In this study, we have characterized the microbial dynamics via the identification of a total of 970 bacterial isolates, representing 15 species of the genera Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc, and Weissella, all of which were primarily identified by PCR-based restriction enzyme analysis. These population dynamics appear to be influenced markedly by fermentation temperature. Distinct biphasic microbial growth was observed with preliminary 2-day incubation at 15 degrees C, conducted before main fermentation at -1 degrees C. Leuconostoc citreum, as well as Leuconostoc gasicomitatum, predominated during the first growth phase, whereas Weissella koreensis predominated during the second phase. By way of contrast, with preliminary 4-day incubation at 10 degrees C, only W. ko	2006	6	22	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Brassica; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Gram-Positive Bacteria; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Restriction Mapping; Species Specificity; Temperature; Time Factors	Cho	Jinhee
18167460		Expression of alpha-galactosidase gene from Leuconostoc mesenteroides SY1 in Leuconostoc citreum.	A 2.5 kb aga gene encoding alpha-galactosidase (alpha- Gal) from Leuconostoc mesenteroides SY1 was cloned into pSJE, an E. coli-Leuconostoc shuttle vector. The recombinant plasmid, pSJEaga, was introduced into Leuconostoc citreum KCTC3526 (ATCC49370) by electroporation. Transcription level of aga was the highest in cells grown on raffinose (1%, w/v) followed by cells grown on galactose, melibiose, fructose, glucose, and sucrose. Western blot using antibodies against alpha-Gal showed similar results to slot-blot results and enzyme activity measurements. All the results indicated that the heterologous aga was successfully expressed in L. citreum and its transcription was under the carbon catabolite repression (CCR).	2008	3	25	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Blotting, Western; DNA, Bacterial; Electroporation; Gene Expression; Leuconostoc; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Transcription, Genetic; alpha-Galactosidase	Park	Jae-Yong
18092458		Synbiotic synthesis of oligosaccharides during milk fermentation by addition of leuconostoc starter and sugars.	Synthesis of oligosaccharides during milk fermentation was attempted by inoculating Leuconostoc citreum with Lactobacillus casei, Lb. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus, and Streptococcus thermophilus as starters. Dextransucrase of Ln. citreum worked as a catalyst for the transglycosylation reaction of sugars; sucrose was added as the glucose donor, and lactose or maltose acted as the acceptor compound for the reaction. When 4% sucrose was added in milk, glucosyl-lactose was synthesized (about 1%, w/v) after 1-2 days of fermentation at 15 or 25 degrees C. Alternatively, when sucrose and maltose (2% each, w/v) were added, panose (about 1%, w/v) and other isomaltooligosaccharides were made in a day at 15-35 degrees C. Growth patterns of lactobacilli and streptococci starters were not affected by the coculture of leuconostoc starter, but the rate of acid synthesis was slightly slowed at every temperature. Addition of sugars in milk did not give any adverse effect on the lactate fermentation. A	2008	1	18	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Animals; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Cattle; Fermentation; Lactose; Leuconostoc; Milk; Oligosaccharides	Seo	Dong Mi
18077039	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2007.11.014	Bacterial biodiversity of traditional Zabady fermented milk.	The aim of this work was to identify the bacterial biodiversity of traditional Zabady fermented milk using PCR-temporal temperature gel electrophoresis (PCR-TTGE) and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Most of the identified bacterial species in Zabady samples belonged to lactic acid bacteria (LAB), e.g., Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactococcus garvieae, Lactococcus raffinolactis, Lactococcus lactis, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Lactobacillus johnsonii. Using the culture-dependent and independent methods, the streptococcal and lactococcal groups appeared to be the major bacterial species in Zabady fermented milk, whereas the lactobacilli were the minor ones. The main dominant species was St. thermophilus followed by Lc. garvieae. Other molecular tools, e.g., species-specific PCR assay and cloning and sequencing strategy were used to confirm the TTGE and DGGE results. Lc. garvieae, Lc. raffinolactis, Ln. citreum, and Lb. johns	2008	4	21	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Biodiversity; Colony Count, Microbial; Cultured Milk Products; DNA, Bacterial; Egypt; Electrophoresis, Gel, Pulsed-Field; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillus; Lactococcus; Leuconostoc; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Species Specificity; Streptococcus	El-Baradei	G
18048756	10.1099/ijs.0.65292-0	Leuconostoc holzapfelii sp. nov., isolated from Ethiopian coffee fermentation and assessment of sequence analysis of housekeeping genes for delineation of Leuconostoc species.	A Gram-positive, ovoid lactic acid bacterium, strain LMG 23990(T), was isolated from Ethiopian coffee fermentation. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that the novel strain belongs to the genus Leuconostoc, with Leuconostoc citreum and Leuconostoc lactis as the closest neighbours (99.6 and 99.0 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, respectively). Genotypic fingerprinting by fluorescent amplified fragment length polymorphism, whole-cell protein electrophoresis, DNA-DNA hybridizations, comparative sequence analysis of pheS, rpoA, atpA, and physiological and biochemical tests allowed us to differentiate strain LMG 23990(T) from all established Leuconostoc species. Strain LMG 23990(T) (=CCUG 54536(T)) therefore represents a novel species, for which the name Leuconostoc holzapfelii sp. nov. is proposed.	2008	3	4	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Cluster Analysis; Coffee; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Ethiopia; Genes, rRNA; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Phylogeny; Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length; Proteome; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid	De Bruyne	Katrien
18036695	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2007.10.009	Phenotypic and genotypic identification of lactic acid bacteria isolated from ethnic fermented bamboo tender shoots of North East India.	Mesu, soidon, soibum and soijim are ethnic fermented bamboo tender shoot products prepared by the people in North East India. Microbiological analysis of mesu, soidon, soibum and soijim showed the population dominated by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) ranging up to 10(8) cfu g(-1). The phenotypic characterisation of predominant LAB isolated from the fermented bamboo shoot products was based on general morphology, physiological tests, API and Biolog systems. The genotypic characterisation of LAB was based on RAPD-PCR, rep PCR, species-specific PCR techniques, 16S rRNA gene sequencing and DNA-DNA hybridisation. Predominant functional LAB strains associated with the fermented bamboo shoot products were identified as Lactobacillus brevis, Lb. plantarum, Lb. curvatus, Pediococcus pentosaceus, Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides, Leuc. fallax, Leuc. lactis, Leuc. citreum and Enterococcus durans.	2008	4	10	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bambusa; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; Enterococcus; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Genotype; Humans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; India; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Pediococcus; Phenotype; Phylogeny; Poaceae; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Species Specificity	Tamang	Buddhiman
17921264	10.1128/AEM.01342-07	DNA fingerprinting of lactic acid bacteria in sauerkraut fermentations.	Previous studies using traditional biochemical identification methods to study the ecology of commercial sauerkraut fermentations revealed that four species of lactic acid bacteria, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactobacillus plantarum, Pediococcus pentosaceus, and Lactobacillus brevis, were the primary microorganisms in these fermentations. In this study, 686 isolates were collected from four commercial fermentations and analyzed by DNA fingerprinting. The results indicate that the species of lactic acid bacteria present in sauerkraut fermentations are more diverse than previously reported and include Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc argentinum, Lactobacillus paraplantarum, Lactobacillus coryniformis, and Weissella sp. The newly identified species Leuconostoc fallax was also found. Unexpectedly, only two isolates of P. pentosaceus and 15 isolates of L. brevis were recovered during this study. A better understanding of the microbiota may aid in the development of low-salt fermentations, w	2008	1	22	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	DNA Fingerprinting; DNA, Bacterial; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Pediococcus; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S	Plengvidhya	Vethachai
17850309	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03543.x	Identification of the agent from Lactobacillus plantarum KFRI464 that enhances bacteriocin production by Leuconostoc citreum GJ7.	To provide evidence that the production of bacteriocin by lactic acid bacteria can be enhanced by the presence of a bacteriocin-sensitive strain and identify the agent that is responsible for enhancing bacteriocin production. One bacteriocin-producing lactic acid bacterium was isolated from kimchi. The strain GJ7 was designated as Leuconostoc citreum GJ7 based on Gram staining, biochemical properties, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The isolate produced a heat- and pH-stable bacteriocin (kimchicin GJ7), which has antagonistic activity against a broad spectrum of micro-organisms. Tricine-sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of purified kimchicin GJ7 showed a single band of molecular weight c. 3500 Da. Cultures of Leuc. citreum GJ7 in the presence of thermally inactivated kimchicin GJ7-sensitive strains, Lactobacillus plantarum KFRI 464, Lactobacillus delbrueckii KFRI 347, or Leuconostoc mesenteroides KCTC 1628, increased bacteriocin production. This inducing factor wa	2008	4	8	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Antibiosis; Bacterial Proteins; Bacteriocins; Base Sequence; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Fermentation; Food Preservation; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Peptide Hydrolases; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Temperature	Chang	J Y
17482304	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2007.02.027	Selection of psychrotrophic Leuconostoc spp. producing highly active dextransucrase from lactate fermented vegetables.	Leuconostoc is the major bacterial genus in the initial phase of the lactate fermentation of vegetables. The dextransucrase elaborated from this bacterium is used to synthesize dextran polymers or prebiotic oligosaccharides. To use Leuconostoc as a starter culture in the manufacture of the kimchi-like fermented foods at low temperature, we isolated microbial flora that showed fast growth rates and high enzyme activity under the test conditions. Nine hundred colonies of Leuconostoc were collected from kimchi, sauerkraut, and pickled cucumber using three consecutive selection media; after batch culture and enzyme activity assays, four strains were selected. Sequencing of 16S rRNA genes of the strains revealed that HJ-S7 and HJ-S13 were Leuconostoc (Ln.) mesenteroides and HJ-P4 and HJ-P5 were Ln. citreum. When compared to the type strain, Ln. mesenteroides B-512F, HJ-P4 showed a more than twofold faster growth rate and 20-fold higher enzyme activity during cultivation at 8 degrees C. Thes	2007	7	30	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Brassica; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Glucosyltransferases; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Vegetables	Eom	Hyun-Ju
19016881	10.1111/j.1574-6968.2008.01381.x	Functional differences in Leuconostoc sensitive and resistant strains to mesenterocin 52A, a class IIa bacteriocin.	Mesenterocin 52A (Mes 52A) is a class IIa bacteriocin produced by Leuconostoc mesenteroides ssp. mesenteroides FR52. The interaction of Mes 52A with bacterial membranes of sensitive, resistant and insensitive Leuconostoc strains has been investigated. The degree of insertion of Mes 52A on the phospholipid bilayer was studied by fluorescence anisotropy measurements using two probes, 1-(4-trimethylammonium)-6-phenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene (TMA-DPH) and DPH, located at different positions in the membrane, and the consequence for K(+) efflux and proton motive force was analyzed. Mes 52A caused an increase in the fluorescence of TMA-DPH and DPH in the membrane of the sensitive strain L. mesenteroides ssp. mesenteroides LMA 7, indicating that Mes 52A inserts into the cytoplasmic membrane of this sensitive strain. This insertion leads to K(+) efflux, without perturbation of DeltapH and a weak modification of DeltaPsi, and is consistent with pore formation. With the high-level resistant strain L. me	2009	1	26	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Bacteriocins; Biological Transport; Cell Membrane; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Membrane Fluidity; Membrane Potentials; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Potassium	Jasniewski	Jordane
18768629	10.1099/ijs.0.65609-0	Reclassification of the genus Leuconostoc and proposals of Fructobacillus fructosus gen. nov., comb. nov., Fructobacillus durionis comb. nov., Fructobacillus ficulneus comb. nov. and Fructobacillus pseudoficulneus comb. nov.	A taxonomic study was made of the genus Leuconostoc. The species in the genus were divided into three subclusters by phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences. The three subclusters were the Leuconostoc mesenteroides subcluster (comprising L. carnosum, L. citreum, L. gasicomitatum, L. gelidum, L. inhae, L. kimchii, L. lactis, L. mesenteroides and L. pseudomesenteroides), the L. fructosum subcluster (L. durionis, L. ficulneum, L. fructosum and L. pseudoficulneum) and the L. fallax subcluster (L. fallax). Phylogenetic trees based on the sequences of the 16S-23S rRNA gene intergenic spacer region, the rpoC gene or the recA gene indicated a good correlation with the phylogenetic tree based on 16S rRNA gene sequences. The species in the L. fructosum subcluster were morphologically distinguishable from the species in the L. mesenteroides subcluster and L. fallax as species in the L. fructosum subcluster had rod-shaped cells. In addition, the four species in the L. fructosum 	2008	10	15	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Acetic Acid; Bacterial Proteins; Bacterial Typing Techniques; Cluster Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; DNA, Ribosomal Spacer; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Ethanol; Genes, rRNA; Genotype; Glucose; Leuconostoc; Microscopy, Electron, Scanning; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; RNA, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rec A Recombinases; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid	Endo	Akihito
18625532	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.06.011	Bioprotective Leuconostoc strains against Listeria monocytogenes in fresh fruits and vegetables.	Ten Leuconostoc mesenteroides and one Ln. citreum strains isolated from fresh fruit and vegetables were tested for their antagonistic capacity against Listeria monocytogenes. Genetic differences among strains were analyzed by Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). All the isolates clustered together and differed from the type strain Ln. mesenteroides ATCC 8293 as well as from Ln. fallax and Ln. citreum. Organic acids, hydrogen peroxide and bacteriocins were detected as main inhibition mechanisms. Characterization of culture supernatants from the bacteriocinogenic strains, CM135 and CM160 revealed a high resistance of antibacterial activity to temperature and pH, and a bactericidal mode of action against L. monocytogenes. Produced bacteriocins belonged to the Class IIa and sequencing of genes showed complete homology with mesentericin Y105. A study of the effect of the relative dose of pathogen and LAB on control of L. monocytogenes in wounds of Golden Delicious apples and Iceberg let	2009	1	6	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Antibiosis; Bacteriocins; Cluster Analysis; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; Food Contamination; Fruit; Hydrogen Peroxide; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Listeria monocytogenes; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Temperature; Vegetables	Trias	Rosalia
18452899	10.1016/j.carres.2008.04.012	NMR spectroscopic analysis of exopolysaccharides produced by Leuconostoc citreum and Weissella confusa.	Dextrans are the main exopolysaccharides produced by Leuconostoc species. Other dextran-producing lactic acid bacteria include Streptococci, Lactobacilli, and Weissella species. Commercial production and structural analysis has focused mainly on dextrans from Leuconostoc species, particularly on Leuconostoc mesenteroides strains. In this study, we used NMR spectroscopy techniques to analyze the structures of dextrans produced by Leuconostoc citreum E497 and Weissella confusa E392. The dextrans were compared to that of L. mesenteroides B512F produced under the same conditions. Generally, W. confusa E392 showed better growth and produced more EPS than did L. citreum E497 and L. mesenteroides B512F. Both L. citreum E497 and W. confusa E392 produced a class 1 dextran. Dextran from L. citreum E497 contained about 11% alpha-(1--&gt;2) and about 3.5% alpha-(1--&gt;3)-linked branches whereas dextran from W. confusa E392 was linear with only a few (2.7%) alpha-(1--&gt;3)-linked branches. Dextra	2008	10	3	Carbohydr Res	Carbohydrate research	Carbohydrate Sequence; Dextrans; Gram-Positive Bacteria; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Structure; Polysaccharides, Bacterial	Maina	Ndegwa Henry
18450312	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.03.003	Analysis of bacterial community during the fermentation of pulque, a traditional Mexican alcoholic beverage, using a polyphasic approach.	In this study, the characterization of the bacterial community present during the fermentation of pulque, a traditional Mexican alcoholic beverage from maguey (Agave), was determined for the first time by a polyphasic approach in which both culture and non-culture dependent methods were utilized. The work included the isolation of lactic acid bacteria (LAB), aerobic mesophiles, and 16S rDNA clone libraries from total DNA extracted from the maguey sap (aguamiel) used as substrate, after inoculation with a sample of previously produced pulque and followed by 6-h fermentation. Microbiological diversity results were correlated with fermentation process parameters such as sucrose, glucose, fructose and fermentation product concentrations. In addition, medium rheological behavior analysis and scanning electron microscopy in aguamiel and during pulque fermentation were also performed. Our results showed that both culture and non-culture dependent approaches allowed the detection of several ne	2008	8	4	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Agave; Alcoholic Beverages; Bacteria; Cloning, Molecular; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Ecosystem; Fermentation; Mexico; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Restriction Mapping; Species Specificity	Escalante	Adelfo
18281406	10.1128/JB.01862-07	Complete genome sequence of Leuconostoc citreum KM20.	Leuconostoc citreum is one of the most prevalent lactic acid bacteria during the manufacturing process of kimchi, the best-known Korean traditional dish. We have determined the complete genome sequence of L. citreum KM20. It consists of a 1.80-Mb chromosome and four circular plasmids and reveals genes likely involved in kimchi fermentation and its probiotic effects.	2008	4	29	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	Base Sequence; Chromosomes, Bacterial; DNA, Bacterial; Food Microbiology; Genome, Bacterial; Korea; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Kim	Jihyun F
18237396	10.1186/1471-2091-9-6	Functional role of the additional domains in inulosucrase (IslA) from Leuconostoc citreum CW28.	Inulosucrase (IslA) from Leuconostoc citreum CW28 belongs to a new subfamily of multidomain fructosyltransferases (FTFs), containing additional domains from glucosyltransferases. It is not known what the function of the additional domains in this subfamily is. Through construction of truncated versions we demonstrate that the acquired regions are involved in anchoring IslA to the cell wall; they also confer stability to the enzyme, generating a larger structure that affects its kinetic properties and reaction specificity, particularly the hydrolysis and transglycosylase ratio. The accessibility of larger molecules such as EDTA to the catalytic domain (where a Ca2+ binding site is located) is also affected as demonstrated by the requirement of 100 times higher EDTA concentrations to inactivate IslA with respect to the smallest truncated form. The C-terminal domain may have been acquired to anchor inulosucrase to the cell surface. Furthermore, the acquired domains in IslA interact with t	2008	4	15	BMC Biochem	BMC biochemistry	Binding Sites; Calcium; Cell Wall; Diffusion; Edetic Acid; Enzyme Stability; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glucans; Hexosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Sequence Deletion; Temperature	Del Moral	Sandra
19276536	10.1002/biof.5520330105	Lipid profile lowering effect of Soypro fermented with lactic acid bacteria isolated from Kimchi in high-fat diet-induced obese rats.	Lactic acid bacteria are known to exert various physiologic functions in humans. In the current study, we investigated the effects of Soypro, a new soymilk fermented with lactic acid bacteria, like Leuconostoc kimchii, Leuconostoc citreum, and Lactobacillus plantarum, isolated from Kimchi, on adipocyte differentiation in preadipocyte 3T3-L1 cell lines and weight gain or the plasma lipid profile in Sprague-Dawley rats. Adipocyte 3T3-L1 cells treated with Soypro (10 microg/ml) significantly reduced the contents of cellular triglyceride and inhibited cell differentiation by Oil red O staining. Treatment with Soypro (10 microg/ml) for an additional two days in adipocytes inhibited the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma2 and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-alpha, transcription factors of adipocyte differentiation. Based on these in vitro studies, we examined the anti-obesity effect of Soypro in rats for six weeks. Soypro had no significant effect on high-fat diet-	2009	5	8	Biofactors	BioFactors (Oxford, England)	3T3-L1 Cells; Animals; Body Weight; Cell Differentiation; Dietary Fats; Eating; Fermentation; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Lipid Metabolism; Lipids; Male; Mice; Obesity; Rats; Rats, Sprague-Dawley; Soy Foods	Kim	Na-Hyung
19734722		Cloning of dextransucrase gene from Leuconostoc citreum HJ-P4 and its high-level expression in E. coli by low temperature induction.	A dextransucrase (LcDS) gene from Leuconostoc citreum HJ-P4 has been amplified and cloned in E. coli. The LcDS gene consists of 4,431 nucleotides encoding 1,477 amino acid residues sharing 63-98% of amino acid sequence identities with other known dextransucrases from Leuc. mesenteroides. Interestingly, 0.1 mM of IPTG induction at 15 degrees remarkably increased the LcDS productivity to 19,187 U/l culture broth, which was over 330-fold higher than that induced at 37 degrees. Optimal reaction temperature and pH of LcDS were determined as 35 degrees and pH 5.5 in 20 mM sodium acetate buffer, respectively. Meanwhile, 0.1 mM CaCl(2) increased its activity to the maximum of 686 U/mg, which was 2.1-fold higher than that in the absence of calcium ion. Similar to the native Leuconostoc dextransucrase, recombinant LcDS could successfully produce a series of isomaltooligosaccharides from sucrose and maltose, on the basis of its transglycosylation activity.	2009	12	3	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Calcium Chloride; Cloning, Molecular; Cold Temperature; Enzyme Activation; Enzyme Induction; Escherichia coli; Genes, Bacterial; Glucosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Industrial Microbiology; Isopropyl Thiogalactoside; Leuconostoc; Recombinant Proteins	Yi	Ah-Rum
19703719	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.07.033	Identification of lactic acid bacteria isolated from Tarhana, a traditional Turkish fermented food.	Tarhana is a traditional fermented product produced from a mixture of spontaneously fermented yogurt and wheat flour in Turkey. The aims of the present study were to enumerate and identify for the first time by molecular biology-based methods predominant lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated during processing of Tarhana. Samples were collected from eight different regions of Turkey. In order to explore the relationship between raw material and the microbiology of Tarhana, yogurt and wheat flour were also analyzed. A total of 226 Gram-positive and catalase-negative isolates were obtained from MRS, M17 and SBM (Slanetz and Bartley Medium). The isolates were grouped and identified using a combination of pheno- and genotypic methods including rep-PCR fingerprinting [(GTG)(5) primer], multiplex PCR, 16S rRNA gene sequencing and carbohydrate assimilation profiling. Pediococcus acidilactici were found to constitute 27% of the isolates, 19% were identified as Streptococcus thermophilus, 19% as L	2010	1	26	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bacterial Typing Techniques; Biodiversity; Carbohydrates; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Fermentation; Flour; Food Handling; Food Microbiology; Genotype; Humans; Lactobacillaceae; Phenotype; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, RNA; Triticum; Turkey; Yogurt	Sengun	Ilkin Yucel
19699768	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2009.08.012	Production of L-lactate in Leuconostoc citreum via heterologous expression of L-lactate dehydrogenase gene.	D-form lactate is often found in fermented foods and excessive dietary intake of D-lactate may cause metabolic stress in both infants and patients. Leuconostoc citreum is a major lactic acid bacterium that produces D-lactate in fermented foods. The aim of this study was to change the pyruvate carbon flux in L. citreum from D-lactate into L-lactate by heterologous expression of L-lactate dehydrogenase (ldhL) gene. For this, ldhL from Lactobacillus plantarum was cloned and introduced into L. citreum using a shuttle vector pLeuCM. In the transformant, ldhL was successfully transcribed and L-lactate dehydrogenase was expressed. As a consequence of transformation, the ratio between D- and L-isomers was changed due to the increment of L-lactate and the decrement of D-lactate, but no significant differences were found in total lactate concentration between the host and transformant cells. This is the first report of metabolic engineering in Leuconostoc by modulating the central carbon flux in	2010	2	4	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Cloning, Molecular; Gene Expression; Genes, Bacterial; Isomerism; L-Lactate Dehydrogenase; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Plasmids; Transformation, Bacterial	Jin	Qing
19651455	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.07.006	Biodiversity of lactic acid bacteria in French wheat sourdough as determined by molecular characterization using species-specific PCR.	The lactic acid microflora of nine traditional wheat sourdoughs from the Midi-Pyr..n..es area (South western France) was previously isolated and preliminary characterized using conventional morphological and biochemical analysis. However, such phenotypic methods alone are not always reliable and have a low taxonomic resolution for identification of lactic acid bacteria species. In the present study, a total of 290 LAB isolates were identified by PCR amplification using different sets of specific primers in order to provide a thorough characterization of the lactic flora from these traditional French sourdoughs. Overall, the LAB isolates belonged to 6 genera: Lactobacillus (39%, 8 species), Pediococcus (38%, 1 species), Leuconostoc (17%, 2 species), Weissella (4%, 2 species), Lactococcus (1%, 1 species) and Enterococcus (&lt;1%, 1 species) and 15 different species were detected: L. plantarum, L. curvatus, L. paracasei, L. sanfranciscensis, L. pentosus, L. paraplantarum, L. sakei, L. bre	2009	11	17	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Biodiversity; Bread; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; France; Gene Amplification; Humans; Lactobacillaceae; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity; Triticum	Robert	Herv..
19618275	10.1007/s10529-009-0079-1	Heterologous expression and secretion of Lactobacillus amylovorus alpha-amylase in Leuconostoc citreum.	To develop a gene expression system for Leuconostoc genus, construction of expression vector and expression of a heterologus protein in Leuconostoc was performed. Alpha-amylase gene from Lactobacillus amylovorus was cloned into a Leuconostoc cloning vector, pLeuCM, with its own signal peptide. pLeuCMamy was introduced into Leuconostoc citreum CB2567 and a successful expression of alpha-amy gene was confirmed by enzyme activity assays. About 90% of alpha-amylase activity was detected in the culture broth, revealing most of expressed alpha-amylase was secreted out cells. The signal sequence of alpha-amy gene is a good candidate for the secretion of heterologous protein by using Leuconostoc host-vector system.	2009	12	4	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Cloning, Molecular; Genes, Bacterial; Lactobacillus acidophilus; Leuconostoc; Plasmids; Restriction Mapping; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Transformation, Genetic; alpha-Amylases	Eom	Hyun-Ju
19608414	10.1016/j.biortech.2009.06.060	Enzyme synthesis of oligosaccharides using cashew apple juice as substrate.	The use of agriculture substrates in industrial biotechnological processes has been increasing because of their low cost. In this work, the use of clarified cashew apple juice was investigated as substrate for enzyme synthesis of prebiotic oligosaccharide. The results showed that cashew apple juice is a good source of reducing sugars and can be used as substrate for the production of dextransucrase by Leuconostoc citreum B-742 for the synthesis of oligosaccharides using the crude enzyme. Optimal oligosaccharide yield (approximately 80%) was obtained for sucrose concentrations lower than 60 g/L and reducing sugar concentrations higher than 100 g/L.	2009	12	3	Bioresour Technol	Bioresource technology	Agriculture; Anacardium; Biotechnology; Carbohydrates; Food Industry; Glucosyltransferases; Glycerol; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Malus; Oligosaccharides; Surface Properties	Rabelo	Maria Cristiane
19493201	10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00131.x	Leuconostoc citreum HJ-P4 (KACC 91035) regulates immunoglobulin E in an ovalbumin-induced allergy model and induces interleukin-12 through nuclear factor-kappa B and p38/c-Jun N-terminal kinases signaling in macrophages.	Leuconostoc citreum (L. citreum) HJ-P4 (KACC 91035) is one of the major predominant species in kimchi fermentation in Korea. The purpose of the present study was to test the immunomodulatory capacity of L. citreum to modulate the IgE-mediated allergic response and to examine the involvement of NF-kappaB and MAPK in IL-12 production in macrophages. Balb/c mice were sensitized with OVA/alum and oral administration of L. citreum to the mice began before or after the OVA sensitization. Protein and mRNA expression of Th1 cytokines in splenocytes by L. citreum in vitro was measured. The role of NF-kappaB and MAPK such as p38, ERK1/2 and JNK in L. citreum-induced IL-12 was investigated in peritoneal macrophages and RAW264.7 cell lines. L. citreum inhibited the serum levels of total IgE, IgG1 and IgG2a altogether and increased OVA-specific IFN-gamma production in splenocytes from pre- and post-sensitized animals. However, the downregulation of IL-4 and IL-5 production was observed only in the 	2009	8	4	Microbiol Immunol	Microbiology and immunology	Animals; Cell Line; Cells, Cultured; Cytokines; Disease Models, Animal; Fermentation; Humans; Hypersensitivity; Immunoglobulin E; Interleukin-12; JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases; Korea; Leuconostoc; Macrophages, Peritoneal; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Mice, Inbred C57BL; NF-kappa B; Ovalbumin; Signal Transduction; Th1 Cells; Vegetables; p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases	Kang	Hee
19406772	10.1099/ijs.0.005983-0	Leuconostoc palmae sp. nov., a novel lactic acid bacterium isolated from palm wine.	A novel lactic acid bacterium, strain TMW 2.694(T), was isolated among other lactic acid bacteria from palm wine, an alcoholic beverage produced from the sap of various palm tree species. Strain TMW 2.694(T) is a Gram-positive, facultatively anaerobic, catalase-negative, non-spore-forming coccus, occurring in long chains. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing positioned strain TMW 2.694(T) in a distinct line of descent within the genus Leuconostoc, with the closest neighbours being Leuconostoc lactis JCM 6123(T) (98.7 % sequence similarity) and Leuconostoc citreum DSM 5577(T) (98.8 % sequence similarity). Comparative sequencing of the additional phylogenetic markers dnaK and recA confirmed the 16S rRNA gene tree topology. Genomic DNA-DNA similarities of strain TMW 2.694(T) to L. lactis DSM 20202(T) and L. citreum DSM 5577(T) were 45.1 and 17.7 %, respectively. The DNA G+C content is 36.4 mol%. Thus, we propose a novel species within the genus Leuconostoc, with the nam	2009	7	7	Int J Syst Evol Microbiol	International journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology	Arecaceae; Bacterial Proteins; Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Composition; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Fermentation; Genes, rRNA; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Nucleic Acid Hybridization; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rec A Recombinases; Senegal; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity; Wine	Ehrmann	Matthias A
19243908	10.1016/j.syapm.2009.01.004	Antifungal activity of strains of lactic acid bacteria isolated from a semolina ecosystem against Penicillium roqueforti, Aspergillus niger and Endomyces fibuliger contaminating bakery products.	Thirty samples of Italian durum wheat semolina and whole durum wheat semolina, generally used for the production of Southern Italy's traditional breads, were subjected to microbiological analysis in order to explore their lactic acid bacteria (LAB) diversity and to find strains with antifungal activity. A total of 125 presumptive LAB isolates (Gram-positive and catalase-negative) were characterized by repetitive extragenic palindromic-PCR (REP-PCR) and sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene, leading to the identification of the following species: Weissella confusa, Weissella cibaria, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus rossiae and Lactobacillus plantarum. The REP-PCR results delineated 17 different patterns whose cluster analysis clearly differentiated W. cibaria from W. confusa isolates. Seventeen strains, each characterized by a different REP-PCR pattern, were screened for their antifungal properties. They were grown in a flour-based medi	2009	9	29	Syst Appl Microbiol	Systematic and applied microbiology	Acetic Acid; Antibiosis; Aspergillus niger; Bread; Ecosystem; Endomyces; Food Contamination; Fungi; Italy; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillaceae; Lactobacillus; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Molecular Sequence Data; Penicillium; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Streptococcaceae; Triticum	Valerio	Francesca
19142587	10.1007/s10529-009-9912-9	Identification of a replicon from pCC3, a cryptic plasmid from Leuconostoc citreum C4 derived from kimchi, and development of a new host-vector system.	Analysis of the structural properties of pCC3, a cryptic plasmid from Leuconostoc citreum C4 isolated from kimchi, determined its length as 3,338 bp and revealed three open reading frames (ORFs): ORF1-ORF3. ORF3 showed high homology with a replication initiation protein of the theta-type plasmid pTXL1. The fragment encompassing ORF3 and its upstream sequences (nt 1,299-1,634) was found to contain a functional plasmid replicon. A new shuttle vector, pUCC3E1, was constructed based on pCC3. Using Southern hybridization analysis, no single-stranded DNA intermediate was detected from Leu. citreum harboring pUCC3E1, which indicates that pCC3 replicated via the theta mechanism. The pUCC3E1 could be replicated in E. coli TG1 (5.8 x 10(4) CFU/microg DNA) and the developed cloning hosts, Leu. citreum C16 (2.1 x 10(2) CFU/microg DNA) and Leu. citreum GJ7 (8.0 x 10(1) CFU/microg DNA). pUCC3E1 was stably maintained in Leu. citreum C16 (for 100 generations, ca. 94.2%) in the absence of erythromycin 	2009	5	11	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Food Microbiology; Genetic Vectors; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Plasmids; Sequence Alignment; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Chang	Ji Yoon
21143710	10.1111/j.1365-2672.2010.04904.x	Growth characterization of individual rye sourdough bacteria by isothermal microcalorimetry.	The present work tests the feasibility of the isothermal microcalorimetry method to study the performance of individual lactic acid bacteria during solid-state fermentation in rye sourdough. Another aim was to elucidate the key factors leading to the formation of different microbial consortia in laboratory and industrial sourdough during continuous backslopping propagation. Strains of the individual LAB isolated from industrial and laboratory sourdough cycle were grown in 10 kGy irradiated rye dough in vials of an isothermal calorimeter and the power-time curves were obtained. Sugars, organic acids and free amino acids in the sourdough were measured. The OD-time curves of the LAB strains during growth in flour extract or MRS (De Man, Rogosa and Sharpe) broth were also determined. The maximum specific growth rates of Lactobacillus sakei, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus curvatus and Leuconostoc citreum strains that dominated in backslopped laboratory sourdough were higher than those 	2011	4	25	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Bread; Calorimetry; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Hot Temperature; Lactobacillus; Microbial Consortia; Secale	Mihhalevski	A
21046199	10.1007/s10529-010-0450-2	Biofilm formation by strains of Leuconostoc citreum and L. mesenteroides.	Although biofilms produced by various Leuconostoc sp. are economically important as contaminants of sugar processing plants, very few studies are available on these systems. Twelve strains of Leuconostoc citreum and L. mesenteroides that produce a variety of extracellular glucans were compared for their capacity to produce biofilms. 16s rRNA sequence analysis was used to confirm the species identity of these strains, which included four isolates of L. mesenteroides, five isolates of L. citreum, and three glucansucrase mutants of L. citreum strain NRRL B-1355. Strains identified as L. mesenteroides produce glucans that are generally similar to commercial dextran. Nevertheless, these strains differed widely in their capacity to form biofilms, with densities ranging from 2.7 to 6.1 log cfu/cm(2). L. citreum strains and their derivatives produce a variety of glucans. These strains exhibited biofilm densities ranging from 2.5 to 5.9 log cfu/cm(2). Thus, biofilm-forming capacity varied widel	2011	6	22	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Biofilms; Leuconostoc; Molecular Structure; Polysaccharides	Leathers	Timothy D
20820868	10.1007/s10295-010-0823-5	Mannitol production by lactic acid bacteria grown in supplemented carob syrup.	Detailed kinetic and physiological characterisation of eight mannitol-producing lactic acid bacteria, Leuconostoc citreum ATCC 49370, L. mesenteroides subsp. cremoris ATCC19254, L. mesenteroides subsp. dextranicum ATCC 19255, L. ficulneum NRRL B-23447, L. fructosum NRRL B-2041, L. lactis ATCC 19256, Lactobacillus intermedius NRRL 3692 and Lb. reuteri DSM 20016, was performed using a carob-based culture medium, to evaluate their different metabolic capabilities. Cultures were thoroughly followed for 30 h to evaluate consumption of sugars, as well as production of biomass and metabolites. All strains produced mannitol at high yields (&gt;0.70 g mannitol/g fructose) and volumetric productivities (&gt;1.31 g/l h), and consumed fructose and glucose simultaneously, but fructose assimilation rate was always higher. The results obtained enable the studied strains to be divided mainly into two groups: one for which glucose assimilation rates were below 0.78 g/l h (strains ATCC 49370, ATCC 19256	2011	3	30	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Culture Media; Fabaceae; Fermentation; Fructose; Glucose; Industrial Microbiology; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Mannitol	Carvalheiro	Florbela
20630231	10.3168/jds.2009-2898	Natural populations of lactic acid bacteria isolated from vegetable residues and silage fermentation.	Natural populations of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and silage fermentation of vegetable residues were studied. Fifty-two strains of LAB isolated from cabbage, Chinese cabbage, and lettuce residues were identified and characterized. The LAB strains were gram-positive and catalase-negative bacteria, which were divided into 6 groups (A to F) according to morphological and biochemical characteristics. The strains in group A were rods that did not produce gas from glucose and formed the d and l isomers of lactate. Groups B and C were homofermentative cocci that formed l-lactic acid. Groups D, E, and F were heterofermentative cocci that formed d-lactic acid. Based on 16S rDNA gene sequence analysis, group A to F strains were identified as Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactococcus piscium, Lactococcus lactis, Leuconostoc citreum, Weissella soli and Leuconostoc gelidum, respectively. The prevalent LAB, predominantly homofermentative lactobacilli, consisted of Lactobacillus plantarum (34.6%), Weissel	2010	12	14	J Dairy Sci	Journal of dairy science	Bacterial Load; Fermentation; Gram-Positive Bacteria; Lactic Acid; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Silage; Vegetables	Yang	J
20591521	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.05.026	Characterization of glucan-producing Leuconostoc strains isolated from sourdough.	Sourdough was previously demonstrated to be a fruitful biotope for isolation of lactic acid bacteria producing exopolysaccharides and more accurately diverse glycan polymers which have interesting applications as texturing agents or prebiotics. Characterization of polymers by (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy analysis demonstrated that these strains could synthesize glucans of high structural variety and containing different amounts of ..-(1...2), ..-(1...3) and ..-(1...6) linkages. In this study, fifteen glucan-producing Leuconostoc mesenteroides and L. citreum strains from sourdoughs were characterized according to carbohydrate fermentation, rep-PCR fingerprinting using (GTG)(5) primers and glycansucrase activity (soluble or cell-associated). Enzyme characterization using SDS-PAGE and in situ polymer production after incubation with sucrose correlated with synthesis of classical or ..-(1...2) branched dextrans, alternan and levan. In addition, the presence of genes coding for alternans	2011	3	9	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bread; Carbohydrate Metabolism; DNA Fingerprinting; Fermentation; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Sequence Alignment	Bounaix	Marie-Sophie
20492238	10.1111/j.1750-3841.2009.01486.x	Improvements in the quality and shelf life of kimchi by fermentation with the induced bacteriocin-producing strain, Leuconostoc citreum GJ7 as a starter.	To improve the quality and self-life of kimchi, the induced bacteriocin-producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB), Leuconostoc citreum GJ7, was introduced into kimchi fermentation as a starter. The kimchi preparations were incubated at 7 degrees C for 12 to 15 d, and then stored at -1 degrees C. Thereafter, changes in their characteristics were monitored for 125 d. When a kimchi starter was introduced into a nonsterile and open kimchi fermentation system, over-ripening of kimchi was prevented during 125 d of storage. In the starter kimchi, Leuc. citreum GJ7 was the dominant organism, comprising 70% to 90% of the total flora, and no yeasts were detected during the entire storage period. However, in the nonstarter kimchi, the predominant LAB could not be determined and yeasts were detected after 50 d of storage. The viable cell number of the starter kimchi was 2 log CFU/mL higher than in the nonstarter kimchi at 125 d of storage. The texture (firmness) of the starter kimchi at 95 to 125 d of 	2010	9	14	J Food Sci	Journal of food science	Bacteriocins; Brassica; Colony Count, Microbial; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Food Preservation; Humans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Pigmentation; Sensation; Taste; Time Factors	Chang	Ji Yoon
22654159	10.1007/s12088-011-0114-5	Stability Study of Crude Dextransucrase from Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-742.	In the present work, the stability of crude dextransucrase from Leuconostoc citreum B-742 was evaluated in synthetic and in cashew apple juice culture broth. Optimum stability conditions for dextransucrase from L. citreum B-742 were different from the reported for its parental industrial strain enzyme (L. mesenteroides B-512F). Crude dextransucrase, from L. citreum B-742, produced using cashew apple juice as substrate, presented higher stability than the crude enzyme produced using synthetic culture medium, showing the same behavior previously reported for dextransucrase from L. mesenteroides B-512F. The crude enzyme presented good stability in cashew apple juice for 48..h at 25..C and pH 6.5.	2012	8	23	Indian J Microbiol	Indian journal of microbiology	Agriculture substrates; Enzyme stability; Fermentation; Glycosyltransferase; Leuconostoc citreum	Rabelo	Maria Cristiane
22209604	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2011.12.008	Combination of culture-dependent and culture-independent molecular methods for the determination of lactic microbiota in sucuk.	In this study, the culture-dependent and culture-independent molecular methods were used for the identification of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in sucuk a Turkish fermented dry sausage. On the one hand, the PCR-DGGE method targetting the V1 and V3 regions of 16S DNA was applied to DNA that was directly extracted from sucuk samples. On the other hand, rep-PCR fingerprinting was performed for the primary differentiation and grouping of the isolates, and the results were confirmed by sequencing of the 16S rDNA and 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer region. As a result of the PCR-DGGE analysis of all the samples, total 8 different lactic acid bacteria were identified, and Lactobacillus sakei, Lactobacillus curvatus and Weissella viridescens were the dominant microbiota among these bacteria. The culture-dependent approach indicated that the majority of the strains belonged to the Lactobacillus genera including Lb. sakei, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lb. curvatus, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus f	2012	6	22	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bacteria; Bacteriological Techniques; DNA Fingerprinting; DNA, Bacterial; Enterococcus; Fermentation; Lactobacillaceae; Lactobacillus; Lactococcus; Leuconostoc; Meat Products; Metagenome; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Staphylococcus; Weissella	Kesmen	Z
22133745	10.1016/j.plasmid.2011.11.003	Construction of theta-type shuttle vector for Leuconostoc and other lactic acid bacteria using pCB42 isolated from kimchi.	The pCB42 plasmid from Leuconostoc citreum CB2567, a strain isolated from kimchi, was characterized, and a shuttle vector for Escherichia coli and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) was constructed. The pCB42 plasmid has a circular structure of 4312bp, a low G+C content, and no single-stranded DNA intermediates during replication, which indicates that pCB42 replicates via the theta-type replication mechanism. In silico analysis of this plasmid revealed 6 open reading frames: 1 transposase gene, 1 DNA-binding gene, 2 putative replication genes, and 2 unknown genes. The fragment encompassing ORF5 contains a functional plasmid replicon. This plasmid was capable of replicating in various LAB, including L. citreum, L. mesenteroides, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lb. reuteri, Lactococcus lactis, Streptococcus thermophilus, Weissella confusa, and Oenococcus oeni. The LAB-E. coli shuttle vector was constructed by ligating pCB42 and pEK104, and the resulting shuttle vector, pLeuCM42, showed a high segregati	2012	5	3	Plasmid	Plasmid	Amino Acid Sequence; Base Sequence; Blotting, Western; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Single-Stranded; Genetic Vectors; Lactobacillaceae; Leuconostoc; Metabolic Engineering; Molecular Sequence Data; Plasmids; RNA, Messenger; Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction; Replicon; Transformation, Bacterial; Vegetables; beta-Galactosidase	Eom	Hyun-Ju
22080938	10.1007/s00449-011-0651-7	Co-production of biomass and metabolites by cell retention culture of Leuconostoc citreum.	Cell retention culture of lactic acid bacterium Leuconostoc citreum was carried out in a fermentor equipped with an internal ceramic filtration system to co-produce biomass and metabolites. The filtration system was composed of porous ceramic filter module with pore size of 0.1 ..m and total surface area of 330 cm(2). High cell density cultivation of L. citreum was achieved within the fermentor, while extracellular metabolites such as mannitol and D-lactic acid were produced through the filter with high productivities. In batch culture of L. citreum using a medium containing 50 g/L of glucose and 100 g/L of fructose, the maximum optical density (OD) monitored at 660 nm was 13 with 65 g/L of mannitol and 38 g/L of lactic acid. In cell retention culture of L. citreum with dilution rate of 0.07 h(-1), OD increased to 75, which was 6 times higher than that in batch culture. The concentrations of mannitol and lactic acid increased to 85 and 45 g/L, respectively, and were maintained througho	2012	9	4	Bioprocess Biosyst Eng	Bioprocess and biosystems engineering	Biomass; Bioreactors; Filtration; Fructose; Glucose; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Mannitol	Sung	Ik-Kyoung
22000549	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2011.09.016	The microbial diversity of water kefir.	The microbial diversity of water kefir, made from a mixture of water, dried figs, a slice of lemon and sucrose was studied. The microbial consortia residing in the granules of three water kefirs of different origins were analyzed. A collection of 453 bacterial isolates was obtained on different selective/differential media. Bacterial isolates were grouped with randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR analyses. One representative of each RAPD genotype was identified by comparative 16S rDNA gene sequencing. The predominant genus in water kefirs I and II was Lactobacillus, which accounted for 82.1% in water kefir I and 72.1% in water kefir II of the bacterial isolates. The most abundant species in water kefirs I and II were Lactobacillus hordei and Lb. nagelii followed by considerably lower numbers of Lb. casei. Other lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were identified as Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Lc. citreum in all three water kefirs. The most abundant species in water kefir III was Lc. 	2012	2	17	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Acetobacter; Cultured Milk Products; DNA, Ribosomal; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Yeasts	Gulitz	Anna
21952374	10.4014/jmb.1105.05034	Mannitol production by Leuconostoc citreum KACC 91348P isolated from Kimchi.	Leuconostoc genus, which comprise heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria, reduces fructose to mannitol by recycling intracellular NADH. To evaluate the mannitol productivities of different Leuconostoc species, 5 stock cultures and 4 newly isolated strains were cultivated in MRS and simplified media containing glucose and fructose (1:2 ratio). Among them, L. citreum KACC 91348P, which was isolated from kimchi, showed superior result in cell growth rate, mannitol production rate, and yield in both media. The optimal condition for mannitol production of this strain was pH 6.5 and 30..C. When L. citreum KACC was cultured in simplified medium in a 2 l batch fermenter under optimal conditions, the maximum volumetric productivity was 14.83 g..l(-1)h(-1) and overall yield was 86.6%. This strain is a novel and efficient mannitol producer originated from foods to be used for fermentation of fructose-containing foods.	2012	1	12	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Fructose; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Mannitol; Temperature; Vegetables	Otgonbayar	Gan-Erdene
21839380	10.1016/j.fm.2011.06.001	Lactic acid bacteria isolated from ethnic preserved meat products of the Western Himalayas.	We used culture- and molecular-biology-based methods to investigate the diversity of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in the ethnic chevon (goat) meat products chartayshya, jamma and arjia of the Western Himalayas. In six chartayshya, six jamma and four arjia samples, LAB were the predominant microbial component involved in the fermentation of these samples, and the total LAB population in arjia (7.8......0.1..log cfu..g(-1); mean......SD) was significantly higher (P..&lt;..0.05) than in chartayshya (6.9......0.1..log cfu..g(-1)) and jamma (7.5......0.1..log cfu..g(-1)). We identified 53 LAB samples by 16S rRNA and phenylalanyl-tRNA synthase (pheS) genes sequencing. The LAB isolates were identified as Enterococcus durans, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Enterococcus hirae, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Pediococcus pentosaceus, and Weissella cibaria. These results revealed that there is a high level of diversity of LAB in the Himalayan ethnic preserved meat prod	2011	12	6	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Enterococcus; Lactobacillales; Leuconostoc; Meat Products; Nepal; Pediococcus; Phylogeny; Weissella	Oki	Kaihei
24031746	10.1590/S1517-838220110003000049	Bioconversion of ginsenoside rb1 into compound k by Leuconostoc citreum LH1 isolated from kimchi.	About 40 different types of ginsenoside (ginseng saponin), a major pharmacological component of ginseng, have been identified along with their physiological activities. Among these, compound K has been reported to prevent the development of and the metastasis of cancer by blocking the formation of tumors and suppressing the invasion of cancerous cells. In this study, ginsenoside Rb1 was converted into compound K via interaction with the enzyme secreted by ..-glucosidase active bacteria, Leuconostoc citreum LH1, extracted from kimchi. The optimum time for the conversion of Rb1 to compound K was about 72 hrs at a constant pH of 6.0 and an optimum temperature of about 30..C. Under optimal conditions, ginsenoside Rb1 was decomposed and converted into compound K by 72 hrs post-reaction (99%). Both TLC and HPLC were used to analyze the enzymatic reaction. Ginsenoside Rb1 was consecutively converted to ginsenoside Rd, F2, and compound K via the hydrolyses of 20-C ..-(1 ... 6)-glucoside, 3-C .	2013	9	13	Braz J Microbiol	Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]	Leuconostoc citreum LH1; bioconversion; compound K; ginsenoside Rb1	Quan	Lin-Hu
21571876	10.1128/AEM.00102-11	Genome sequence of a food spoilage lactic acid bacterium, Leuconostoc gasicomitatum LMG 18811T, in association with specific spoilage reactions.	Leuconostoc gasicomitatum is a psychrotrophic lactic acid bacterium causing spoilage of cold-stored, modified-atmosphere-packaged (MAP), nutrient-rich foods. Its role has been verified by challenge tests in gas and slime formation, development of pungent acidic and buttery off odors, and greening of beef. MAP meats have especially been prone to L. gasicomitatum spoilage. In addition, spoilage of vacuum-packaged vegetable sausages and marinated herring has been reported. The genomic sequencing project of L. gasicomitatum LMG 18811T was prompted by a need to understand the growth and spoilage potentials of L. gasicomitatum, to study its phylogeny, and to be able to knock out and overexpress the genes. Comparative genomic analysis was done within L. gasicomitatum LMG 18811T and the three fully assembled Leuconostoc genomes (those of Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Leuconostoc citreum, and Leuconostoc kimchii) available. The genome of L. gasicomitatum LMG 18811T is plasmid-free and contains a 1	2011	10	12	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Base Composition; Chromosomes, Bacterial; DNA, Bacterial; Food Microbiology; Genome, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Molecular Sequence Data; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Johansson	Per
21538258	10.1007/s12275-011-1078-1	Development of a high-throughput screening method for recombinant Escherichia coli with intracellular dextransucrase activity.	To efficiently engineer intracellular dextransucrase (DSase) expression in Escherichia coli, a high-throughput screening method was developed based on the polymer-forming activity of the enzyme. Recombinant E. coli containing the Leuconostoc citreum DSase (LcDS) gene was grown on Luria-Bertani agar plates, containing 2% sucrose, at 37..C for 8 h. The plates were then evenly overlaid with 0.6% soft agar, containing 1.2 mg/ml D-cycloserine, and incubated at 30..C to allow gradual cell disruption until a dextran polymer grew through the overlaid layer. A significant correlation between dextran size and enzyme activity was established and applied for screening truncated mutants with LcDS activity.	2011	8	23	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Bacteriological Techniques; Culture Media; Escherichia coli; Glucosyltransferases; High-Throughput Screening Assays; Leuconostoc; Temperature; Time Factors	Lee	So-Ra
21535696	10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.01965.x	Growth inhibition of foodborne pathogens by kimchi prepared with bacteriocin-producing starter culture.	Kimchi (starter kimchi) was prepared with Leuconostoc citreum GJ7, a bacteriocin producer, with the objective of preventing growth and/or survival of foodborne pathogens such as Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella Typhi, and Staphylococcus aureus. Numbers of the pathogens inoculated to 5.41 to 5.63 log CFU/mL into the filtrate of freshly made starter kimchi remained stable for the first 12 h of incubation at 10 ..C. Reductions of 2.69, 2.88, and 3.42 log CFU/mL were observed 48 h after inoculation with E. coli O157:H7, S. Typhi, and S. aureus, respectively. Use of the bacteriocin-producing starter culture for kimchi fermentation significantly reduced the numbers of pathogens in the filtrate. Reductions of 3.85, 4.45, and 5.19 log CFU/mL were observed 48 h after inoculation for E. coli O157:H7, S. Typhi, and S. aureus, respectively. Presumably, the antimicrobial activity came from the ingredients of kimchi such as sulfur-containing compounds, low pH (approximately pH 4.5) produced by t	2011	9	29	J Food Sci	Journal of food science	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Antibiosis; Bacteriocins; Brassica; Cell Extracts; Colony Count, Microbial; Disk Diffusion Antimicrobial Tests; Escherichia coli O157; Fermentation; Food, Preserved; Foodborne Diseases; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Microbial Viability; Plant Leaves; Republic of Korea; Salmonella typhi; Staphylococcus aureus; Time Factors	Chang	Ji Yoon
21477479	10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-10-276	Autoinducer-2-like activity in lactic acid bacteria isolated from minced beef packaged under modified atmospheres.	Fifteen fingerprints (assigned to Leuconostoc spp., Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Weissella viridescens, Leuconostoc citreum, and Lactobacillus sakei) of 89 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from minced beef stored under modified atmospheres at various temperatures were screened for their ability to exhibit autoinducer-2 (AI-2)-like activity under certain growth conditions. Cellfree meat extracts (CFME) were collected at the same time as the LAB isolates and tested for the presence of AI-2-like molecules. All bioassays were conducted using the Vibrio harveyi BAA-1117 (sensor 1(-), sensor 2(+)) biosensor strain. The possible inhibitory effect of meat extracts on the activity of the biosensor strain was also evaluated. AI-2-like activity was observed for Leuconostoc spp. isolates, but none of the L. sakei strains produced detectable AI-2-like activity. The AI-2-like activity was evident mainly associated with the Leuconostoc sp. B 233 strain, which was the dominant isolate recovered from 	2011	6	3	J Food Prot	Journal of food protection	Animals; Cattle; Colony Count, Microbial; Consumer Product Safety; Food Contamination; Food Microbiology; Food Packaging; Homoserine; Lactobacillales; Lactones; Meat Products; Temperature	Blana	Vasiliki A
24031676	10.1590/S1517-838220110002000029	Identification of the bacterial community responsible for traditional fermentation during sour cassava starch, cacha..a and minas cheese production using culture-independent 16s rRNA gene sequence analysis.	We used a cultivation-independent, clone library-based 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis to identify bacterial communities present during traditional fermentation in sour cassava starch, cacha..a and cheese production in Brazil. Partial 16S rRNA gene clone sequences from sour cassava starch samples collected on day five of the fermentation process indicated that Leuconostoc citreum was the most prevalent species, representing 47.6% of the clones. After 27 days of fermentation, clones (GenBank accession numbers GQ999786 and GQ999788) related to unculturable bacteria were the most prevalent, representing 43.8% of the clones from the bacterial community analyzed. The clone represented by the sequence GQ999786 was the most prevalent at the end of the fermentation period. The majority of clones obtained from cacha..a samples during the fermentation of sugar cane juice were from the genus Lactobacillus. Lactobacillus nagelli was the most prevalent at the beginning of the fermentation process, 	2013	9	13	Braz J Microbiol	Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]	cacha..a; cassava; cheese; clone library; fermentation	Lacerda	Inayara C A
21383037	10.2527/jas.2010-3270	Increased dietary zinc oxide changes the bacterial core and enterobacterial composition in the ileum of piglets.	This study was conducted to investigate the effects of increased dietary ZnO on the bacterial core and enterobacterial composition in the small intestine of piglets that were fed diets containing a total of 124 or 3,042 mg of Zn per kilogram of diet, respectively. Zinc was supplemented to the basal diet as ZnO. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes of ileal DNA extracts were PCR-amplified with 2 bar-coded primer sets and sequenced by 454 pyrosequencing. The bacterial core species were calculated from the relative abundances of reads present in 5 of 6 samples per group and at a minimum of 5 sequences per sample. The reference database SILVA was used to assign sequence reads at an alignment minimum of 200 bases and 100% identity. Lactic acid bacteria dominated the bacterial core, but showed diverse responses to dietary ZnO. Of the dominant Lactobacillus spp., Lactobacillus reuteri was reduced due to increased dietary ZnO (44.7 vs. 17.9%; P=0.042), but L. amylovorus was not influenced. However, the ch	2011	11	15	J Anim Sci	Journal of animal science	Animal Feed; Animal Nutritional Physiological Phenomena; Animals; Diet; Dose-Response Relationship, Drug; Enterobacteriaceae; Ileum; Phylogeny; Swine; Zinc Oxide	Vahjen	W
21335386	10.1128/AEM.02470-10	Influence of temperature and backslopping time on the microbiota of a type I propagated laboratory wheat sourdough fermentation.	Sourdough fermentation is a cereal fermentation that is characterized by the formation of stable yeast/lactic acid bacteria (LAB) associations. It is a unique process among food fermentations in that the LAB that mostly dominate these fermentations are heterofermentative. In the present study, four wheat sourdough fermentations were carried out under different conditions of temperature and backslopping time to determine their effect on the composition of the microbiota of the final sourdoughs. A substantial effect of temperature was observed. A fermentation with 10 backsloppings (once every 24 h) at 23..C resulted in a microbiota composed of Leuconostoc citreum as the dominant species, whereas fermentations at 30 and 37..C with backslopping every 24 h resulted in ecosystems dominated by Lactobacillus fermentum. Longer backslopping times (every 48 h at 30..C) resulted in a combination of Lactobacillus fermentum and Lactobacillus plantarum. Residual maltose remained present in all fermen	2011	10	18	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Bread; Colony Count, Microbial; DNA, Bacterial; Edible Grain; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus fermentum; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Maltose; Metagenome; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Temperature; Time Factors; Triticum	Vrancken	Gino
21296447	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2011.01.015	Novel PCR-based identification of Weissella confusa using an AFLP-derived marker.	An extensive use of Weissella (W.) confusa is currently being made for the production of a variety of fermented foods and beverages although some strains of this species have emerged as opportunistic pathogens for humans and animals. Nevertheless, no rapid methods are available for the reliable identification of W. confusa. We developed a novel PCR using AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism)-derived primers for the rapid and unequivocal identification of W. confusa. Fluorescent AFLP of 30 strains of W. confusa, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactobacillus (Lb.) brevis, Lb. rossiae, Lb. plantarum and Lb. buchneri allowed us to detect, purify and sequence several W. confusa specific AFLP fragments. The homology search in BLAST of a 303 bp nucleotide sequence revealed a ... 77% identity of the purified fragment with the lepA gene of several lactic acid bacteria. A PCR assay targeting 225 bp of this fragment was developed and tested against the DNA of 109 strains, including 34 foodborne and 	2011	6	3	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism Analysis; Bacterial Proteins; DNA Primers; DNA, Bacterial; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid; Species Specificity; Weissella	Fusco	Vincenzina
21282025	10.1016/j.syapm.2010.10.003	Natural populations of lactic acid bacteria associated with silage fermentation as determined by phenotype, 16S ribosomal RNA and recA gene analysis.	One hundred and fifty-six strains isolated from corn (Zea mays L.), forage paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) silages prepared on dairy farms were screened, of which 110 isolates were considered to be lactic acid bacteria (LAB) according to their Gram-positive and catalase-negative characteristics and, mainly, the lactic acid metabolic products. These isolates were divided into eight groups (A-H) based on the following properties: morphological and biochemical characteristics, ..-aminobutyric acid production capacity, and 16S rRNA gene sequences. They were identified as Weissella cibaria (36.4%), Weissella confusa (9.1%), Leuconostoc citreum (5.3%), Leuconostoc lactis (4.9%), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (8.0%), Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis (4.5%), Lactobacillus paraplantarum (4.5%) and Lactobacillus plantarum (27.3%). W. cibaria and W. confusa were mainly present in corn silages, and L. plantarum was dominant on sorghum a	2011	8	12	Syst Appl Microbiol	Systematic and applied microbiology	Bacterial Proteins; Base Sequence; Bile Acids and Salts; Biodiversity; Fermentation; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillales; Medicago sativa; Molecular Sequence Data; Oryza; Phenotype; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Rec A Recombinases; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Silage; Sorghum; Zea mays; gamma-Aminobutyric Acid	Pang	Huili
21229378	10.1007/s10295-010-0936-x	A novel dextransucrase is produced by Leuconostoc citreum strain B/110-1-2: an isolate used for the industrial production of dextran and dextran derivatives.	The industrial Leuconostoc strain B/110-1-2 producing dextran and dextran derivatives was taxonomically identified by 16S rRNA as L. citreum. Its dextransucrase enzymes were characterized according to their cellular location and reaction specificity. In the presence of sucrose, the strain B/110-1-2 produced two cell-associated dextransucrases (31.54% of the total glucosyltransferase activity) with molecular weights of 160 and 240 kDa and a soluble dextransucrase (68.46%) at 160-180 kDa. Two open reading frames (ORF) coding for L. citreum strain B/110-1-2 dextransucrases were identified. One of them shared a 52% identity with the alternansucrase ASR of L. citreum NRRL B-1355 and with a putative annotated alternansucrase sequence found in the genome of L. citreum KM20. The structural analysis (HPAEC-PAD, HPSEC, and (13)C-NMR) of the polymer and oligodextrans produced by the B/110-1-2 dextransucrases suggest this novel glucansucrase has specificity similar to a dextransucrase but not to a	2012	2	9	J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of industrial microbiology &amp; biotechnology	Dextrans; Glucosyltransferases; Glycosyltransferases; Industrial Microbiology; Leuconostoc; Molecular Weight; Oligosaccharides; Substrate Specificity; Sucrose	Vidal	Reinaldo Fraga
21229247	10.1007/s00284-010-9851-7	Isolation of a gene from Leuconostoc citreum B/110-1-2 encoding a novel dextransucrase enzyme.	The amplicon encoding dextransucrase DSR-F from Leuconostoc citreum B/110-1-2, a novel sucrose glucosyltransferase (GTF)-specific for ..-1,6 and ..-1,3 glucosidic bond synthesis, with ..-1,4 branching was cloned, sequenced, and expressed into Escherichia coli JM109. Recombinant enzyme catalyzed oligosaccharides synthesis from sucrose as donor and maltose acceptor. The dsrF gene encodes for a protein (DSR-F) of 1,528 amino acids, with a theoretical molecular mass of 170447.72 Da (~170 kDa). From amino acid sequence comparison, it appears that DSR-F possesses the same domains as those described for GTFs. However, the variable region is longer than in other GTFs (by 100 amino acids) and two APY repeats (a 79 residue long motif with a high number of conserved glycine and aromatic residues, characterized by the presence of the three consecutive residues Ala, Pro, and Tyr) were identified in the glucan binding domain. The DSR-F catalytic domain possesses the catalytic triad involved in the g	2011	7	18	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Glucosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Sequence Alignment; Substrate Specificity	Fraga Vidal	Reinaldo
21204877	10.1111/j.1472-765X.2010.02991.x	Characterization of lactic acid bacteria from musts and wines of three consecutive vintages of Ribeira Sacra.	This study was designed to isolate and characterize the lactic acid microbiota of the musts and wines of a young denomination of origin area, Ribeira Sacra in north-west Spain. Over three consecutive years (2007, 2008 and 2009), we examined musts and wines from four cellars in different zones of the region. Through biochemical and genetic tests, 459 isolates of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were identified as the following species: Lactobacillus alvei (0..7%), Lactobacillus brevis (1..7%), Lactobacillus frumenti (0..9%), Lactobacillus kunkeei (12%), Lactobacillus plantarum (6..5%), Lactobacillus pentosus (0..9%), Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis (3%), Leuconostoc citreum (0..7%), Leuconostoc fructosum (synon. Lactobacillus fructosum) (3..7%), Leuconostoc mesenteroides ssp. mesenteroides (2..8%), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (0..2%), Oenococcus oeni (59%), Pediococcus parvulus (7%) and Weisella paramesenteroides (synon. Leuconostoc paramesenteroides) (0..9%). Of these species, O. oeni was	2011	4	18	Lett Appl Microbiol	Letters in applied microbiology	Bacterial Typing Techniques; Biogenic Amines; Carboxylic Ester Hydrolases; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillaceae; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Spain; Wine; beta-Glucosidase	Mesas	J M
23442676	10.1016/j.foodchem.2012.04.047	Evaluation of Leuconostoc citreum HO12 and Weissella koreensis HO20 isolated from kimchi as a starter culture for whole wheat sourdough.	Leuconostoc citreum HO12 and Weissella koreensis HO20 isolated from kimchi were evaluated as starter cultures in the making of whole wheat sourdough bread. After 24h of fermentation at 25 ..C, both lactobacilli grew to the final cell numbers of ca. 10(9)cfu/g dough, and both doughs had similar pHs and total titratable acidities. In addition, the fermentation quotient of the dough with Lc. citreum HO12 was slightly lower than that of the dough with W. koreensis HO20 (1.6 versus 2.8). Sourdoughs and bread with 50% sourdough produced with the starter cultures exhibited consistent ability to retard the growth of bread spoilage fungi (Penicillium roqueforti and Aspergillus niger) and rope-forming bacterium (Bacillus subtilis). Sourdough breads underwent a significant reduction in bread firming during storage. It seems that both lactobacilli have the potential to improve the shelf-life of wheat bread. The results indicate that the selected lactobacilli have unique fermentation characteristic	2013	8	22	Food Chem	Food chemistry	Brassica; Bread; Fermentation; Food Preservation; Leuconostoc; Triticum; Weissella	Choi	Hyejung
23241984	10.1128/AEM.03291-12	Use of a novel Escherichia coli-leuconostoc shuttle vector for metabolic engineering of Leuconostoc citreum to overproduce D-lactate.	Determination of the complete nucleotide sequence of a cryptic plasmid, pMBLT00, from Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides KCTC13302 revealed that it contains 20,721 bp, a G+C content of 38.7%, and 18 open reading frames. Comparative sequence and mung been nuclease analyses of pMBLT00 showed that pMBLT00 replicates via the theta replication mechanism. A new, stable Escherichia coli-Leuconostoc shuttle vector, pMBLT02, which was constructed from a theta-replicating pMBLT00 replicon and an erythromycin resistance gene of pE194, was successfully introduced into Leuconostoc, Lactococcus lactis, and Pediococcus. This shuttle vector was used to engineer Leuconostoc citreum 95 to overproduce d-lactate. The L. citreum 95 strain engineered using plasmid pMBLT02, which overexpresses d-lactate dehydrogenase, exhibited enhanced production of optically pure d-lactate (61 g/liter, which is 6 times greater than the amount produced by the control strain) when cultured in a reactor supplement	2013	7	26	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Anti-Bacterial Agents; Base Composition; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Erythromycin; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Genetic Vectors; L-Lactate Dehydrogenase; Lactic Acid; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Metabolic Engineering; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Pediococcus; Plasmids; Selection, Genetic; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Chae	Han Seung
23194554	10.1016/j.foodchem.2012.09.075	Structural analysis of linear mixed-linkage glucooligosaccharides by tandem mass spectrometry.	Dextrans and glucooligosaccharides (GLOS) are produced by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) during sourdough fermentation. The dextrans can act as hydrocolloids in sourdough bread, while the GLOS may have antistaling and prebiotic properties, depending on their structure. Development of high-throughput methods for screening the structural properties of dextrans and GLOS produced by different LAB in varying fermentation conditions is therefore of interest. In this study we explored the possibility of using electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectroscopy (ESI-MS/MS) to unequivocally determine the structures of underivatised GLOS. The emphasis was on linear mixed linked model GLOS, especially those containing (1...3) linkages that are common in dextrans. After evaluation of the model GLOS, the ESI-MS/MS method was used to determine the linkage positions of two mixed-linked tetrasaccharides obtained by hydrolysis of Weissella confusa and Leuconostoc citreum dextrans. In positive mode, only the r	2013	5	17	Food Chem	Food chemistry	Bread; Dextrans; Fermentation; Leuconostoc; Molecular Structure; Oligosaccharides; Spectrometry, Mass, Electrospray Ionization; Tandem Mass Spectrometry; Weissella	Maina	Ndegwa H
23124754	10.1007/s12275-012-2153-y	Antifungal activity of Leuconostoc citreum and Weissella confusa in rice cakes.	The antifungal activity of organic acids greatly improves the shelf life of bread and bakery products. However, little is known about the effect of lactic acid fermentation on fungal contamination in rice cakes. Here, we show that lactic acid fermentation in rice dough can greatly retard the growth of three fungal species when present in rice cakes, namely Cladosporium sp. YS1, Neurospora sp. YS3, and Penicillium crustosum YS2. The antifungal activity of the lactic acid bacteria against these fungi was much better than that of 0.3% calcium propionate. We found that organic acids including lactic and acetic acid, which are byproducts of lactic fermentation or can be artificially added, were the main antifungal substances. We also found that some Leuconostoc citreum and Weissella confusa strains could be good starter species for rice dough fermentation. These results imply that these lactic acid bacteria can be applicable to improve the preservation of rice cakes.	2013	3	26	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Antibiosis; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Fungi; Leuconostoc; Oryza; Weissella	Baek	Eunjong
22806635	10.1002/jsfa.5788	Bacterial community dynamics, lactic acid bacteria species diversity and metabolite kinetics of traditional Romanian vegetable fermentations.	Artisanal vegetable fermentations are very popular in Eastern European countries. Fresh vegetables undergo a spontaneous fermentation in the presence of salt, which is mainly carried out by lactic acid bacteria (LAB). Culture-dependent and culture-independent analyses of end-samples of various spontaneous vegetable fermentations carried out in houses of the Chiodju region (central Romania) revealed Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus brevis as the most frequently isolated LAB species. Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Leuconostoc citreum were also found. Furthermore, the community dynamics of spontaneous cauliflower and mixed-vegetable (green tomatoes, carrots and cauliflower) fermentations revealed three steps: an initial phase characterised by the presence of Enterobacteriaceae and a wide LAB species diversity, encompassing Weissella species; a second phase from day 3 onwards wherein L. citreum and Lb. brevis occurred; and a final phase characterised by the prevalence of Lb. brevis	2013	8	5	J Sci Food Agric	Journal of the science of food and agriculture	Acetic Acid; Biodiversity; Brassica; Daucus carota; Diet; Ethanol; Fermentation; Food Handling; Fructose; Glucose; Hexoses; Humans; Kinetics; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Lycopersicon esculentum; Mannitol; Romania; Sodium Chloride; Species Specificity	Wouters	Dorrit
22635989	10.1128/AEM.00572-12	Influence of artisan bakery- or laboratory-propagated sourdoughs on the diversity of lactic acid bacterium and yeast microbiotas.	Seven mature type I sourdoughs were comparatively back-slopped (80 days) at artisan bakery and laboratory levels under constant technology parameters. The cell density of presumptive lactic acid bacteria and related biochemical features were not affected by the environment of propagation. On the contrary, the number of yeasts markedly decreased from artisan bakery to laboratory propagation. During late laboratory propagation, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) showed that the DNA band corresponding to Saccharomyces cerevisiae was no longer detectable in several sourdoughs. Twelve species of lactic acid bacteria were variously identified through a culture-dependent approach. All sourdoughs harbored a certain number of species and strains, which were dominant throughout time and, in several cases, varied depending on the environment of propagation. As shown by statistical permutation analysis, the lactic acid bacterium populations differed among sourdoughs propagated at artis	2012	12	10	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Amino Acids; Analysis of Variance; Base Sequence; Computational Biology; DNA Primers; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis; Environment; Ethanol; Food Microbiology; Genotype; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Italy; Lactobacillales; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Triticum	Minervini	Fabio
22534298	10.4014/jmb.1111.11032	Large increase in Leuconostoc citreum KM20 dextransucrase activity achieved by changing the strain/inducer combination in an E. coli expression system.	A recombinant putative dextransucrase (DexT) was produced from Leuconostoc citreum KM20 as a 160 kDa protein, but its productivity was very low (264 U/l). For optimization, we examined enzyme activity in 7 Escherichia coli strains with inducer molecules such as lactose or IPTG. E. coli BL21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL exhibited the highest enzyme activity with lactose. Finally, DexT activity was remarkably increased by 12-fold under the optimized culture conditions of a cell density to start induction (OD.........) of 0.95, a lactose concentration of 7.5 mM, and an induction temperature of 17 degrees C. These results may effectively apply to the heterologous expression of other large DexT genes.	2012	8	20	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Culture Media; Escherichia coli; Gene Expression; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Glucosyltransferases; Lactose; Leuconostoc; Temperature	Ko	Jin-A
22374948	10.1128/JB.06789-11	Genome sequences of three Leuconostoc citreum strains, LBAE C10, LBAE C11, and LBAE E16, isolated from wheat sourdoughs.	Leuconostoc citreum is a key microorganism in fermented foods of plant origin. Here we report the draft genome sequence for three strains of Leuconostoc citreum, LBAE C10, LBAE C11, and LBAE E16, which have been isolated from traditional French wheat sourdoughs.	2012	4	23	J Bacteriol	Journal of bacteriology	DNA, Bacterial; Food Microbiology; Genome, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Triticum	Laguerre	Sandrine
22247149	10.1128/AEM.07222-11	Design of chimeric levansucrases with improved transglycosylation activity.	Fructansucrases (FSs), including levansucrases and inulosucrases, are enzymes that synthesize fructose polymers from sucrose by the direct transfer of the fructosyl moiety to a growing polymer chain. These enzymes, particularly the single domain fructansucrases, also possess an important hydrolytic activity, which may account for as much as 70 to 80% of substrate conversion, depending on reaction conditions. Here, we report the construction of four chimeric levansucrases from SacB, a single domain levansucrase produced by Bacillus subtilis. Based on observations derived from the effect of domain deletion in both multidomain fructansucrases and glucansucrases, we attached different extensions to SacB. These extensions included the transitional domain and complete C-terminal domain of Leuconostoc citreum inulosucrase (IslA), Leuconostoc mesenteroides levansucrase (LevC), and a L. mesenteroides glucansucrase (DsrP). It was found that in some cases the hydrolytic activity was reduced to le	2012	5	16	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Bacillus subtilis; Enzyme Stability; Glycosyltransferases; Hexosyltransferases; Hydrolysis; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Recombinant Proteins	Olvera	Clarita
24351750	10.1017/S002202991300068X	Leuconostoc citreum MB1 as biocontrol agent of Listeria monocytogenes in milk.	Cell-free supernatant from Leuconostoc citreum MB1 revealed specific antilisterial activity. Preliminary studies demonstrated the proteinaceous, heat-stable, bacteriocin-like trait of the antimicrobial components present in the supernatant. Determination of the genes encoding bacteriocins by PCR and DNA sequencing led to amplification products highly homologous with leucocin A (found in diverse Leuconostoc species) and UviB (found in Leuc. citreum KM20) sequences. Additionally, antimicrobial activity of cell-free supernatant from Leuc. citreum MB1 was revealed by an inhibition halo of the SDS-PAGE gel subjected to a direct detection using Listeria monocytogenes as indicator strain. Different assays were carried out to assess the capacity of Leuc.citreum MB1 to control List. monocytogenes growth: (i) inactivation kinetics of the pathogen by antilisterial compounds present in concentrated cell-free supernatant from Leuc. citreum MB1, (ii) evaluation of optimal Leuc. citreum MB1 initial c	2014	12	4	J Dairy Res	The Journal of dairy research	Animals; Bacteriocins; Base Sequence; Biological Control Agents; Coculture Techniques; Cold Temperature; Colony Count, Microbial; Culture Media, Conditioned; DNA, Bacterial; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Leuconostoc; Listeria monocytogenes; Milk; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Sequence Homology	Pujato	Silvina A
24291182	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.10.027	An improved process of isomaltooligosaccharide production in kimchi involving the addition of a Leuconostoc starter and sugars.	Isomaltooligosaccharides (IMOs) are ..-(1...6)-linked oligodextrans that show a prebiotic effect on Bifidobacterium spp. This study sought to improve IMO synthesis during lactate fermentation in kimchi by inoculating the kimchi fermentation mix with a starter and sugars; the psychrotrophic Leuconostoc citreum KACC 91035 strain with high dextransucrase activity was used as a starter and sucrose (58 mM) and maltose (56 mM) were added as the donor and acceptor for the glucose-transferring reaction of the dextransucrase, respectively. With the addition of both the starter and the sugars and incubation at 10..C, IMOs were produced in kimchi after 3d. Without the starter, the IMO production rate and maximal concentration in kimchi were 15.05 mM/d and 75.27 mM, respectively, whereas with the starter, the rate and concentration increased to 22.04 mM/d and 110.19 mM, respectively. In addition, the sucrose-maltose mix gave an appropriate level of sweetness by releasing fructose and prevented unf	2014	3	4	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Dextransucrase; Isomaltooligosaccharide; Leuconostoc citreum; Prebiotics; Synbiotics; Brassica; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Carbohydrates; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Leuconostoc; Oligosaccharides; Sucrose	Cho	Seung Kee
24284907	10.1002/jsfa.6464	Effect of ripening stage on the development of the microbial community during spontaneous fermentation of green tomatoes.	Spontaneous fermentation of plant-derived material is mainly performed on a small scale, with the exception of fermented olives, cucumbers, sauerkraut and kimchi, which have met worldwide commercial significance. This study of spontaneous fermentation of green tomatoes at different stages of ripening revealed a significant effect on the growth kinetics of lactic acid bacteria and the final pH value. Leuconostoc mesenteroides dominated spontaneous fermentation when the initial pH value ranged from 3.8 to 4.8 whereas at higher pH values (4.9-5.4) it co-dominated with Leu. citreum and Lactobacillus casei. Application of RAPD-PCR and rep-PCR allowed differentiation at sub-species level, suggesting a microbial succession at that level accompanying the respective at species level. Ripening stage affected the development of the micro-ecosystem through the growth of lactic acid bacteria and concomitant pH value reduction; however, the outcome of the fermentation was only marginally different.	2014	12	18	J Sci Food Agric	Journal of the science of food and agriculture	Lactobacillus casei; Leu. citreum; Leuconostoc mesenteroides; green tomatoes; spontaneous fermentation; Ecosystem; Fermentation; Fruit; Genotype; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Lycopersicon esculentum; Polymerase Chain Reaction	Paramithiotis	Spiros
24274497	10.1016/j.carbpol.2013.08.021	Challenges in analysis of high-molar mass dextrans: comparison of HPSEC, AsFlFFF and DOSY NMR spectroscopy.	Dilute solutions of various dextran standards, a high-molar mass (HMM) commercial dextran from Leuconostoc spp., and HMM dextrans isolated from Weissella confusa and Leuconostoc citreum were analyzed with high-performance size-exclusion chromatography (HPSEC), asymmetric flow field-flow fractionation (AsFlFFF), and diffusion-ordered NMR spectroscopy (DOSY). HPSEC analyses were performed in aqueous and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) solutions, while only aqueous solutions were utilized in AsFlFFF and DOSY. The study showed that all methods were applicable to dextran analysis, but differences between the aqueous and DMSO-based solutions were obtained for HMM samples. These differences were attributed to the presence of aggregates in aqueous solution that were less prevalent in DMSO. The study showed that DOSY provides an estimate of the size of HMM dextrans, though calibration standards may be required for each experimental set-up. To our knowledge, this is the first study utilizing these thr	2014	7	14	Carbohydr Polym	Carbohydrate polymers	AsFlFFF; DOSY; Dextran; HPSEC; Leuconostoc citreum; Polysaccharides; Weissella confusa; Calibration; Chemical Fractionation; Chromatography, Gel; Dextrans; Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Weight; Reference Standards; Solutions; Solvents; Water; Weissella	Maina	Ndegwa Henry
24195373		[Phylogenetic analysis of closely related Leuconostoc citreum species based on partial housekeeping genes].	Using the 16S rRNA, dnaA, murC and pyrG gene sequences, we identified the phylogenetic relationship among closely related Leuconostoc citreum species. Seven Leu. citreum strains originally isolated from sourdough were characterized by PCR methods to amplify the dnaA, murC and pyrG gene sequences, which were determined to assess the suitability as phylogenetic markers. Then, we estimated the genetic distance and constructed the phylogenetic trees including 16S rRNA and above mentioned three housekeeping genes combining with published corresponding sequences. By comparing the phylogenetic trees, the topology of three housekeeping genes trees were consistent with that of 16S rRNA gene. The homology of closely related Leu. citreum species among dnaA, murC, pyrG and 16S rRNA gene sequences were different, ranged from75.5% to 97.2%, 50.2% to 99.7%, 65.0% to 99.8% and 98.5% 100%, respectively. The phylogenetic relationship of three housekeeping genes sequences were highly consistent with the 	2014	1	2	Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao	Wei sheng wu xue bao = Acta microbiologica Sinica	Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Lv	Qiang
24176308	10.1016/j.foodchem.2013.09.010	Biotransformation of stevioside by Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 alternansucrase acceptor reaction.	Stevioside (13-O-..-sophorosyl-19-O-..-d-glucosyl-steviol) is a non-cariogenic and low-calorigenic diterpenoid glycoside. It has a slightly bitter taste and bad aftertaste. Enzymatic modification by alternansucrase from Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 was utilised in the biotransformation of stevioside to fully or partially remove the bitter taste of the stevioside. The effect of the reaction conditions including, time (1-24h), temperature (20-40..C), pH (4-7), donor concentration (10-100mg/ml) and enzyme concentration (0.5-2.5U/ml) were investigated in order to maximise the transglucosylation yield. The highest transglucosylation yield of approximately 43.7% was achieved at 20..C, pH 5.4 for 24h using sucrose at 10mg/ml and alternansucrase at 1U/ml. LC/MS analysis confirmed that the product was composed of mono-di- and tri- glucosylated stevioside and their isomers. 	2014	5	12	Food Chem	Food chemistry	Alternansucrase; Biotransformation; Glucosyl-steviosides; Stevioside; Bacterial Proteins; Biotransformation; Diterpenes, Kaurane; Glucosides; Glycosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Structure	Musa	Abubakr
24010616	10.1016/j.fm.2013.07.003	Diversity and technological potential of lactic acid bacteria of wheat flours.	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were analysed from wheat flours used in traditional bread making throughout Sicily (southern Italy). Plate counts, carried out in three different media commonly used to detect food and sourdough LAB, revealed a maximal LAB concentration of approximately 4.75 Log CFU g(-1). Colonies representing various morphological appearances were isolated and differentiated based on phenotypic characteristics and genetic analysis by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR. Fifty unique strains were identified. Analysis by 16S rRNA gene sequencing grouped the strains into 11 LAB species, which belonged to six genera: Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Pediococcus and Weissella. Weissella cibaria, Lactobacillus plantarum, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides and Leuconostoc citreum were the most prevalent species. The strains were not geographically related. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis of total DNA of flour was used to provide	2014	3	19	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Acidification; Lactic acid bacteria; Proteolysis; Sourdough; Volatile organic compounds; Wheat flour; Acids; Bacterial Proteins; Biodiversity; Flour; Industrial Microbiology; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillaceae; Peptide Hydrolases; Phylogeny; Triticum	Alfonzo	Antonio
23851268	10.4014/jmb.1305.05018	Pyrosequencing-based analysis of the bacterial community in Korean traditional seafood, ojingeo jeotgal.	Jeotgal fermentation is dependent upon a diverse microbial community, although a detailed understanding of its microbial composition is limited to a relatively small number of jeotgal. Pyrosequencing-based bacterial community analysis was performed in fermented squid, ojingeo jeotgal. Leuconostoc was identified as the predominant bacterial genus, with Bacillus and Staphylococcus also accounting for a large proportion of the bacterial community. Phylogenetic analysis with 16S rRNA genes of Leuconostoc type species indicated that L. citreum- and L. holzapfelii-like strains could be the major Leuconostoc strains in jeotgal. High concentrations of NaCl were thought to be an important factor determining the makeup of the bacterial community in the fermented squid; however, a genomic survey with osmotic stress-related genes suggests the existence of more complex factors selecting the dominant bacterial species in fermented squid. 	2014	6	2	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Bacteria; Biota; Cluster Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Ribosomal; Humans; Korea; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Seafood; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sodium Chloride	Jung	Jaejoon
23764225	10.1016/j.fm.2013.04.015	Diversity of thermophilic bacteria in raw, pasteurized and selectively-cultured milk, as assessed by culturing, PCR-DGGE and pyrosequencing.	Thermophilic lactic acid bacteria (LAB) species, such as Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus delbrueckii and Lactobacillus helveticus, enjoy worldwide economic importance as dairy starters. To assess the diversity of thermophilic bacteria in milk, milk samples were enriched in thermophilic organisms through a stepwise procedure which included pasteurization of milk at 63....C for 30..min (PM samples) and pasteurization followed by incubation at 42....C for 24..h (IPM samples). The microbial composition of these samples was analyzed by culture-dependent (at 42....C) and culture-independent (PCR-DGGE and pyrosequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons) microbial techniques. The results were then compared to those obtained for their corresponding starting raw milk counterparts (RM samples). Twenty different species were scored by culturing among 352 isolates purified from the counting plates and identified by molecular methods. Mesophilic LAB species (Lactococcus lactis, Lactococcus garvi	2013	12	23	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Animals; Bacteria; Biodiversity; Cattle; Cultured Milk Products; DNA, Bacterial; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis; Food Contamination; Food Handling; Milk; Molecular Sequence Data; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Delgado	Susana
23676906	10.4014/jmb.1304.04009	Isolation and characterization of a cryptic plasmid, pMBLR00, from Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides KCTC 3733.	A cryptic plasmid, pMBLR00, from Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides KCTC 3733 was isolated, characterized, and used for the construction of a cloning vector to engineer Leuconostoc species. pMBLR00 is a rolling circle replication plasmid, containing 3,370 base pairs. Sequence analysis revealed that pMBLR00 has 3 open reading frames: Cop (copy number control protein), Rep (replication protein), and Mob (mobilization protein). pMBLR00 replicates by rolling circle replication, which was confirmed by the presence of a conserved double-stranded origin and single-stranded DNA intermediates. An Escherichia coli-Leuconostoc shuttle vector, pMBLR02, was constructed and was able to replicate in Leuconostoc citreum 95. pMBLR02 could be a useful genetic tool for metabolic engineering and the genetic study of Leuconostoc species.	2014	1	2	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; DNA Helicases; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli; Genes, Bacterial; Genetic Vectors; Genetics, Microbial; Leuconostoc; Molecular Biology; Molecular Sequence Data; Open Reading Frames; Plasmids; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Trans-Activators	Chae	Han Seung
23558189	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.02.010	The lactic acid bacteria and yeast microbiota of eighteen sourdoughs used for the manufacture of traditional Italian sweet leavened baked goods.	The lactic acid bacteria and yeast microbiota of eighteen sourdoughs used for the manufacture of some traditional Italian sweet leavened baked goods were studied through culture-dependent method and pyrosequencing. Flours used for back slopping and sourdoughs were also biochemically characterized. Principal component analysis was applied to explore eventual correlations between process parameters applied during back slopping, some flour nutrients, profile of microbiota, and biochemical characteristics of sourdoughs. The median values of the cell density of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts were 8.05 and 7.03 log CFU/g, respectively. As shown by culture-dependent method, Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis was identified in all the sourdoughs, except for Panaredda and Torcolo di San Costanzo. For eleven sourdoughs, all the lactic acid bacteria isolates were allotted to this species. For Buccellato di Lucca, Mbriagotto, Pandoro, and Nadalin sourdoughs, at least 80% of the isolates was allotted 	2013	9	24	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bacteria; Bacterial Physiological Phenomena; Fermentation; Food Handling; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillus; Metagenome; Principal Component Analysis; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Yeasts	Lattanzi	Anna
23550842	10.1111/1750-3841.12095	Microbial succession and metabolite changes during long-term storage of Kimchi.	Kimchi is often stored for a long period of time for a diet during the winter season because it is an essential side dish for Korean meals. In this study pH, abundance of bacteria and yeasts, bacterial communities, and metabolites were monitored periodically to investigate the fermentation process of kimchi for 120 d. Bacterial abundance increased quickly with a pH decrease after an initial pH increase during the early fermentation period. After 20 d, pH values became relatively stable and free sugars were maintained at relatively constant levels, indicating that kimchi fermentation by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) was almost completed. After that time, a decrease in bacterial abundance and a growth in Saccharomyces occurred concurrently with increased free sugar consumption and production of glycerol and ethanol. Finally, after 100 d, the growth of Candida was observed. Community analysis using pyrosequencing revealed that diverse LAB including Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc holzapfeli	2013	12	26	J Food Sci	Journal of food science	Acetates; Candida; Fermentation; Food Handling; Food Microbiology; Food Storage; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Mannitol; Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length; Principal Component Analysis; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Saccharomyces; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Succinic Acid; Weissella; gamma-Aminobutyric Acid	Jeong	Sang Hyeon
25790502	10.1093/femsle/fnu024	Overview of the glucansucrase equipment of Leuconostoc citreum LBAE-E16 and LBAE-C11, two strains isolated from sourdough.	The whole set of putative glucansucrases from Leuconostoc citreum LBAE-E16 and LBAE-C11 was retrieved from the draft genome sequence of these two sourdough strains previously suggested as alternan producers. Four and five putative glycoside hydrolase family 70 (GH70) encoding genes were identified in the genome sequence of strain C11 and E16, respectively. Some putative genes have high sequence identity to known Leuconostoc dextransucrases. Molecular and biochemical data confirmed that L. citreum C11 could be considered as a new alternan-producing strain, unlike strain E16. In the latter, two new putative glucansucrases with unusual structural features were retrieved. In particular, the GSE16-5 gene encodes for a protein of 2063 amino acids with a theoretical molecular mass of 229 kDa that shares 61% identity with the alternansucrase (ASR) of L. citreum NRRL B-1355, due to the presence of seven APY repeats identified in the C-terminal peptide sequence. Cloning and expression of the cor	2015	12	14	FEMS Microbiol Lett	FEMS microbiology letters	APY repeats; L. citreum; alternansucrase; dextransucrase; glucansucrase; Amino Acid Motifs; Cloning, Molecular; Cluster Analysis; DNA, Bacterial; Dextrans; Evolution, Molecular; Food Microbiology; Gene Expression; Genome, Bacterial; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Data; Molecular Weight; Phylogeny; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Sequence Homology	Amari	Myriam
25583343	10.1016/j.fm.2014.10.011	Iranian wheat flours from rural and industrial mills: Exploitation of the chemical and technology features, and selection of autochthonous sourdough starters for making breads.	This study aimed at describing the main chemical and technology features of eight Iranian wheat flours collected from industrial and artisanal mills. Their suitability for bread making was investigated using autochthonous sourdough starters. Chemical analyses showed high concentration of fibers and ash, and technology aptitude for making breads. As shown through 2-DE analyses, gliadin and glutenin subunits were abundant and varied among the flours. According to the back slopping procedure, type I sourdoughs were prepared from Iranian flours, and lactic acid bacteria were typed and identified. Strains of Pediococcus pentosaceus, Weissella cibaria, Weissella confusa, and Leuconostoc citreum were the most abundant. Based on the kinetics of growth and acidification, quotient of fermentation and concentration of total free amino acids, lactic acid bacteria were selected and used as sourdough mixed starters for bread making. Compared to spontaneous fermentation, sourdoughs fermented with sel	2015	9	8	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Baked goods; Fermentation; Lactic acid bacteria; 6-Phytase; Amino Acids; Bread; Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Glutens; Lactobacillaceae; Leuconostoc; Pediococcus; Triticum; Weissella	Pontonio	Erica
25479060	10.1016/j.plasmid.2014.11.004	The use of the replication region of plasmid pRS7 from Oenococcus oeni as a putative tool to generate cloning vectors for lactic acid bacteria.	A chimeric plasmid, pRS7Rep (6.1...kb), was constructed using the replication region of pRS7, a large plasmid from Oenococcus oeni, and pEM64, a plasmid derived from pIJ2925 and containing a gene for resistance to chloramphenicol. pRS7Rep is a shuttle vector that replicates in Escherichia coli using its pIJ2925 component and in lactic acid bacteria (LAB) using the replication region of pRS7. High levels of transformants per ..g of DNA were obtained by electroporation of pRS7Rep into Pediococcus acidilactici (1.5........10(7)), Lactobacillus plantarum (5.7........10(5)), Lactobacillus casei (2.3........10(5)), Leuconostoc citreum (2.7........10(5)), and Enterococcus faecalis (2.4........10(5)). A preliminary optimisation of the technical conditions of electrotransformation showed that P. acidilactici and L. plantarum are better transformed at a later exponential phase of growth, whereas L. casei requires the early exponential phase for better electrotransformation efficiency. pRS7Rep co	2015	9	14	Plasmid	Plasmid	Cloning vector; Lactic acid bacteria; Oenococcus oeni; Plasmid; Chromosome Mapping; DNA Replication; Electroporation; Genetic Vectors; Lactobacillaceae; Oenococcus; Plasmids; Transformation, Bacterial	Rodr..guez	M Carmen
25437059	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2014.11.011	Unpasteurised commercial boza as a source of microbial diversity.	Boza is a cereal-based fermented beverage widely consumed in many countries of the Balkans. The aim of this study was to investigate the microbiota of three Bulgarian boza samples through a combination of culture-dependent and -independent methods with the long-term objective of formulating a multi-strain starter culture specifically destined for the manufacture of new cereal-based drinks. The isolation campaign for lactic acid bacteria (LAB) allowed the identification of Lactobacillus parabuchneri, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus coryniformis, Lactobacillus buchneri, Pediococcus parvulus and members of the Lactobacillus casei group. Concerning yeasts, the following isolates were identified: Pichia fermentans, Pichia norvegensis, Pichia guilliermondii (synonym Meyerozyma guilliermondii) and Torulaspora spp. A high intra-species diversity was revealed by Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. In parallel, microbial DNA was directly extracted from the three boza sampl	2015	3	18	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Cereal-based beverage; Lactic acid bacteria; Microbial diversity; PCR-DGGE; RAPD; Yeasts; Beverages; Biodiversity; Colony Count, Microbial; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis; Fermentation; Lactobacillales; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Yeasts	Osimani	Andrea
25428963	10.1128/genomeA.01179-14	Complete Genome Sequence of Leuconostoc citreum Strain NRRL B-742.	Leuconostoc citreum belongs to the group of lactic acid bacteria and plays an important role in fermented foods of plant origin. Here, we report the complete genome of the Leuconostoc citreum strain NRRL B-742, isolated in 1954 for its capacity to produce dextran. 	2014	11	27	Genome Announc	Genome announcements	NA	Passerini	Delphine
25117002	10.1007/s12602-014-9166-2	Probiotic properties of lactic acid bacteria isolated from water-buffalo mozzarella cheese.	This study evaluated the probiotic properties (stability at different pH values and bile salt concentration, auto-aggregation and co-aggregation, survival in the presence of antibiotics and commercial drugs, study of ..-galactosidase production, evaluation of the presence of genes encoding MapA and Mub adhesion proteins and EF-Tu elongation factor, and the presence of genes encoding virulence factor) of four LAB strains (Lactobacillus casei SJRP35, Leuconostoc citreum SJRP44, Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus SJRP57 and Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides SJRP58) which produced antimicrobial substances (antimicrobial peptides). The strains survived the simulated GIT modeled in MRS broth, whole and skim milk. In addition, auto-aggregation and the cell surface hydrophobicity of all strains were high, and various degrees of co-aggregation were observed with indicator strains. All strains presented low resistance to several antibiotics and survived in the presence of c	2016	7	20	Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins	Probiotics and antimicrobial proteins	Animals; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Bacterial Proteins; Cattle; Cheese; Fermentation; Lactobacillaceae; Milk; Probiotics	Jeronymo-Ceneviva	Ana Beatriz
25039289	10.1111/1750-3841.12498	Halotolerance and survival kinetics of lactic acid bacteria isolated from jalape..o pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) fermentation.	The microbiota associated with spontaneous fermentation of vegetables in a saline substrate may represent an important group of bacteria in the food industry. In this work, the lactic acid bacteria (LAB) Weissella cibaria, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus paraplantarum, and Leuconostoc citreum were identified by partial 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. In addition, entophytic bacteria such as Pantoea eucalypti, Pantoea anthophila, Enterobacter cowanii, and Enterobacter asburiae were detected, but they were irrelevant for the fermentation process and were inhibited after 12 h of fermentation when the pH decreased from 6.5 to 4.9. Moreover, 2 species of yeast were isolated and identified as Hanseniaspora pseudoguilliermondii and Kodamaea ohmeri by their partial 26S rRNA gene sequence. The growth of LAB was evaluated at different sodium chloride contents. L. citreum was the most halotolerant species followed by L. plantarum and W. cibaria with a concentration index to obtain a 50% p	2015	5	18	J Food Sci	Journal of food science	capsicum; fermentation; jalape..o pepper; lactobacillus; leuconostoc; weissella; Capsicum; DNA, Bacterial; Escherichia coli O157; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillaceae; Leuconostoc; Phenotype; RNA, Ribosomal; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Vegetables; Yeasts	Gonz..lez-Quijano	G..nesis Karendash
24962899	10.1111/jam.12587	Construction of a dextran-free Leuconostoc citreum mutant by targeted disruption of the dextransucrase gene.	Leuconostoc citreum is an important lactic acid bacterium in fermented foods, but dextran production often causes undesired ropiness. To prevent this side effect, a dextran-free mutant needs to be created. Homologous recombination of the dextransucrase gene (dsrC) was conducted using a segregationally unstable plasmid, pCBM32-DSUDs. A mutant was obtained on sucrose agar medium, and a site-specific insertional inactivation in the gene was confirmed. When cultured in sucrose medium, the mutant strain produced no dextransucrase or dextran. Additionally, it showed a longer lag phase (9 h) than the wild-type strain (3 h), providing new insights into the role of dextransucrase in carbohydrate metabolism of Leuconostoc. In this study, a dextransucrase knockout mutant was constructed. It was found that Leuc. citreum dextransucrase not only synthesizes dextran for cell protection but also provides fructose as an important carbon source for cell growth. This knockout mutation was generated for t	2015	6	16	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	chromosomal gene inactivation; dextran; fermented foods; genetic; lactic acid bacteria; Biotechnology; Carbohydrate Metabolism; Dextrans; Food Microbiology; Fructose; Gene Knockout Techniques; Glucosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Sucrose	Jin	Q
24632249	10.1128/AEM.00309-14	Diversity of the lactic acid bacterium and yeast microbiota in the switch from firm- to liquid-sourdough fermentation.	Four traditional type I sourdoughs were comparatively propagated (28 days) under firm (dough yield, 160) and liquid (dough yield, 280) conditions to mimic the alternative technology options frequently used for making baked goods. After 28 days of propagation, liquid sourdoughs had the lowest pH and total titratable acidity (TTA), the lowest concentrations of lactic and acetic acids and free amino acids, and the most stable density of presumptive lactic acid bacteria. The cell density of yeasts was the highest in liquid sourdoughs. Liquid sourdoughs showed simplified microbial diversity and harbored a low number of strains, which were persistent. Lactobacillus plantarum dominated firm sourdoughs over time. Leuconostoc lactis and Lactobacillus brevis dominated only some firm sourdoughs, and Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis persisted for some time only in some firm sourdoughs. Leuconostoc citreum persisted in all firm and liquid sourdoughs, and it was the only species detected in liquid sou	2015	8	10	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Biodiversity; Bread; Fermentation; Food Handling; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Microbiota; Triticum; Yeasts	Di Cagno	Raffaella
26685674	10.1007/s00253-015-7227-4	Lactobacillus and Leuconostoc volatilomes in cheese conditions.	New strains are desirable to diversify flavour of fermented dairy products. The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential of Leuconostoc spp. and Lactobacillus spp. in the production of aroma compounds by metabolic fingerprints of volatiles. Eighteen strains, including five Lactobacillus species (Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus sakei) and three Leuconostoc species (Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc lactis, and Leuconostoc mesenteroides) were incubated for 5 weeks in a curd-based slurry medium under conditions mimicking cheese ripening. Populations were enumerated and volatile compounds were analysed by headspace trap gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). A metabolomics approach followed by multivariate statistical analysis was applied for data processing and analysis. In total, 12 alcohols, 10 aldehydes, 7 esters, 11 ketones, 5 acids and 2 sulphur compounds were identified. Very large 	2016	10	31	Appl Microbiol Biotechnol	Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Adjunct culture; Aroma compounds; Cheese flavour; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Metabolomics; Volatilome fingerprinting; Bacterial Load; Cheese; Culture Media; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Metabolomics; Models, Biological; Volatile Organic Compounds	Poga..i..	Tomislav
26682858	10.1128/AEM.02944-15	Levan-Producing Leuconostoc citreum Strain BD1707 and Its Growth in Tomato Juice Supplemented with Sucrose.	A levan-producing strain, BD1707, was isolated from Tibetan kefir and identified as Leuconostoc citreum. The effects of carbon sources on the growth of L. citreum BD1707 and levan production in tomato juice were measured. The changes in pH, viable cell count, sugar content, and levan yield in the cultured tomato juice supplemented with 15% (wt/vol) sucrose were also assayed. L. citreum BD1707 could synthesize more than 28 g/liter of levan in the tomato juice-sucrose medium when cultured at 30..C for 96 h. Based on the monosaccharide composition, molecular mass distribution, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra, the levan synthesized by L. citreum BD1707 was composed of a linear backbone consisting of consecutive ..-(2...6) linked d-fructofuranosyl units, with an estimated average molecular mass of 4.3 .. 10(6) Da. 	2016	10	28	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Culture Media; Food Microbiology; Fructans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Lycopersicon esculentum; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Microbial Viability; Molecular Weight; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Sucrose; Temperature; Tibet; Time Factors	Han	Jin
26678137	10.1016/j.fm.2015.09.005	Lactic acid bacteria in dried vegetables and spices.	Spices and dried vegetable seasonings are potential sources of bacterial contamination for foods. However, little is known about lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in spices and dried vegetables, even though certain LAB may cause food spoilage. In this study, we enumerated LAB in 104 spices and dried vegetables products aimed for the food manufacturing industry. The products were obtained from a spice wholesaler operating in Finland, and were sampled during a one-year period. We picked isolates (n..=..343) for species identification based on numerical analysis of their ribotyping patterns and comparing them with the corresponding patterns of LAB type strains. We found LAB at levels &gt;2..log..CFU/g in 68 (65%) of the samples, with the highest counts detected from dried onion products and garlic powder with counts ranging from 4.24 to 6.64..log..CFU/g. The LAB identified were predominantly Weissella spp. (61%) and Pediococcus spp. (15%) with Weissella confusa, Weissella cibaria, Weissella para	2016	8	23	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Dried onion; Garlic powder; Lactic acid bacteria; Spices; Weissella spp.; Biodiversity; Colony Count, Microbial; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillales; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Spices; Vegetables	S..de	Elina
26678131	10.1016/j.fm.2015.08.009	Control of Shigatoxin-producing Escherichia coli in cheese by dairy bacterial strains.	Bio-preservation could be a valuable way to control Shigatoxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) in cheese. To this end, 41 strains were screened for their inhibitory potential on model cheese curd and on pasteurized and raw milk uncooked pressed cheeses. Strains of Lactococcus lactis, Lactococcus garvieae, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactobacillus sp, Carnobacterium mobile, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Macrococcus caseolyticus and Hafnia alvei reduced STEC O26:H11 counts by 1.4-2.5 log cfu g(-1) and to a lesser extent STEC O157:H7 counts in pasteurized milk cheeses. Some strains can act in synergy to inhibit STEC in raw milk uncooked pressed cheeses. Inhibitory associations had no adverse effect on the sensory characteristics of these cheeses. The association of H. alvei, Lactobacillus plantarum and Lc. lactis was the most inhibitory: after inoculation of this consortium into milk, STEC O26:H11 and O157:H7, inoculated at 2 log cfu ml(-1), were	2016	8	23	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Bacteria; Inhibitory power; Model cheese curd; Shigatoxin-producing E...coli; Uncooked pressed cheeses; Animals; Antibiosis; Cheese; Escherichia coli O157; Lactobacillales; Milk	Callon	C..cile
26608755	10.1017/S0022029915000606	Screening for antimicrobial and proteolytic activities of lactic acid bacteria isolated from cow, buffalo and goat milk and cheeses marketed in the southeast region of Brazil.	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) can be isolated from different sources such as milk and cheese, and the lipolytic, proteolytic and glycolytic enzymes of LAB are important in cheese preservation and in flavour production. Moreover, LAB produce several antimicrobial compounds which make these bacteria interesting for food biopreservation. These characteristics stimulate the search of new strains with technological potential. From 156 milk and cheese samples from cow, buffalo and goat, 815 isolates were obtained on selective agars for LAB. Pure cultures were evaluated for antimicrobial activities by agar antagonism tests and for proteolytic activity on milk proteins by cultivation on agar plates. The most proteolytic isolates were also tested by cultivation in skim milk followed by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analysis of the fermented milk. Among the 815 tested isolates, three of them identified as Streptococcus uberis (strains FT86, FT126 and FT190) w	2016	12	13	J Dairy Res	The Journal of dairy research	Lactic acid bacteria; antimicrobials; dairy; identification; proteinase; Animals; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Antibiosis; Bacteria; Brazil; Buffaloes; Cattle; Cheese; Food Microbiology; Goats; Milk	Tulini	Fabricio L
26344292	10.1016/j.carbpol.2015.07.061	Isolation and characterization of dextran produced by Leuconostoc citreum NM105 from manchurian sauerkraut.	A water-soluble exopolysaccharide (EPS) was produced by Leuconostoc ctireum NM105 from homemade manchurian sauerkraut. After culturing the strain in Man-Rogosa-Sharpe medium containing 5% sucrose at 25..C for 48h, the EPS was purified and a yield of 23.5g/L was achieved. The EPS consisted exclusively of glucose and the weight-average molecular weight was 1.01..10(8)Da. The structural characterization of the purified EPS determined by FT-IR, (1)H, (13)C and two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy demonstrated that the glucan contained ..-(1...6)-linked d-glucopyranose units, 2,6-linked d-glucopyranose units and terminal ..-d-glucopyranose units at a ratio of 1:1:1. The microstructure of the dried dextran appeared a sheet-like smooth glittering and highly branched surface. The NM105 dextran showed high water solubility and excellent water retention. All the results suggested that the highly ..-(1...2) branched dextran might have the potential to serve as valuable polymers applied in foods, cosm	2016	6	27	Carbohydr Polym	Carbohydrate polymers	Deuterium oxide (PubChem CID: 24602); Dextran; Ethanol (PubChem CID: 702); Exopolysaccharide; Glucose (PubChem CID: 79025); Leuconostoc citreum; Potassium bromide (PubChem CID: 253877); Potassium carbonate (PubChem CID: 11430); Structural characterization; Sucrose (PubChem CID: 5988); Trichloroacetic acid (PubChem CID: 6421); Trifluoroacetic acid (PubChem CID: 6422); Brassica; Fermentation; Food Handling; Leuconostoc; Molecular Weight; Monosaccharides; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Solubility; Water	Yang	Yanping
26282688	10.4014/jmb.1505.05072	Development of Bile Salt-Resistant Leuconostoc citreum by Expression of Bile Salt Hydrolase Gene.	Probiotic bacteria must have not only tolerance against bile salt but also no genes for antibiotic resistance. Leuconostoc citreum is a dominant lactic acid bacterium in various fermented foods, but it is not regarded as a probiotic because it lacks bile salt resistance. Therefore, we aimed to construct a bile salt-resistant L. citreum strain by transforming it with a bile salt hydrolase gene (bsh). We obtained the 1,001 bp bsh gene from the chromosomal DNA of Lactobacillus plantarum and subcloned it into the pCB4170 vector under a constitutive P710 promoter. The resulting vector, pCB4170BSH was transformed into L. citreum CB2567 by electroporation, and bile saltresistant transformants were selected. Upon incubation with glycodeoxycholic acid sodium salt (GDCA), the L. citreum transformants grew and formed colonies, successfully transcribed the bsh gene, and expressed the BSH enzyme. The recombinant strain grew in up to 0.3% (w/v) GDCA, conditions unsuitable for the host strain. In in 	2016	10	6	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Leuconostoc citreum; bile salt hydrolase; probiotics; Amidohydrolases; Bile Acids and Salts; Cloning, Molecular; Culture Media; Drug Resistance, Bacterial; Gene Expression; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Microbial Viability; Probiotics; Recombinant Proteins; Transformation, Genetic	Cho	Seung Kee
26104520	10.5713/ajas.14.0955	Natural Lactic Acid Bacteria Population and Silage Fermentation of Whole-crop Wheat.	Winter wheat is a suitable crop to be ensiled for animal feed and China has the largest planting area of this crop in the world. During the ensiling process, lactic acid bacteria (LAB) play the most important role in the fermentation. We investigated the natural population of LAB in whole-crop wheat (WCW) and examined the quality of whole-crop wheat silage (WCWS) with and without LAB inoculants. Two Lactobacillus plantarum subsp. plantarum strains, Zhengzhou University 1 (ZZU 1) selected from corn and forage and grass 1 (FG 1) from a commercial inoculant, were used as additives. The silages inoculated with LAB strains (ZZU 1 and FG 1) were better preserved than the control, with lower pH values (3.5 and 3.6, respectively) (p&lt;0.05) and higher contents of lactic acid (37.5 and 34.0 g/kg of fresh matter (FM), respectively) (p&lt;0.05) than the control. Sixty LAB strains were isolated from fresh material and WCWS without any LAB inoculation. These LAB strains were divided into the follo	2015	6	24	Asian-Australas J Anim Sci	Asian-Australasian journal of animal sciences	16S rDNA; Fermentation Quality; Lactic Acid Bacteria; Whole-crop Wheat Silage (WCWS); recA Gene	Ni	Kuikui
26049782	10.1097/MPG.0000000000000878	Distinctive Intestinal Lactobacillus Communities in 6-Month-Old Infants From Rural Malawi and Southwestern Finland.	Our aim was to compare the composition and diversity of Lactobacillus microbiota in infants living in Malawi and Southwestern Finland. The composition and diversity of the Lactobacillus group was analyzed in the feces of healthy 6-month-old infants living in rural Malawi (n...=...44) and Southwestern Finland (n...=...31), using the quantitative polymerase chain reaction method and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting. Malawian infants had higher counts of lactobacilli than their Finnish counterparts (7.45 log cells/g vs 6.86 log cells/g, P...&lt;...0.001, respectively) and the Lactobacillus community was richer and more diverse in the Malawian infants. Leuconostoc citreum and Weissella confusa were the predominant species in both study groups, but Malawian infants were more often colonized by these species (100% vs 74.2%, P...&lt;...0.001; 95.5% vs 41.9%, P...&lt;...0.001, respectively). Moreover, Lactobacillus ruminis, Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus acidoph	2016	9	9	J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr	Journal of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition	Breast Feeding; Environment; Feces; Female; Finland; Gastrointestinal Microbiome; Humans; Infant; Infant Nutritional Physiological Phenomena; Intestines; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Malawi; Male; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Rural Population; Weissella	Aakko	Juhani
25963776	10.1111/mec.13237	Three-phase succession of autochthonous lactic acid bacteria to reach a stable ecosystem within 7..days of natural bamboo shoot fermentation as revealed by different molecular approaches.	Microbial community structure and population dynamics during spontaneous bamboo shoot fermentation for production of 'soidon' (indigenous fermented food) in North-east India were studied using cultivation-dependent and cultivation-independent molecular approaches. Cultivation-dependent analyses (PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis and rRNA gene sequencing) and cultivation-independent analyses (PCR-DGGE, qPCR and Illumina amplicon sequencing) were conducted on the time series samples collected from three independent indigenous soidon fermentation batches. The current findings revealed three-phase succession of autochthonous lactic acid bacteria to attain a stable ecosystem within 7..days natural fermentation of bamboo shoots. Weissella spp. (Weissella cibaria, uncultured Weissella ghanensis) and Lactococcus lactis subsp. cremoris predominated the early phase (1-2..days) which was joined by Leuconostoc citreum during the mid-phase (3..days), while Lactobacillus brevis and La	2015	9	28	Mol Ecol	Molecular ecology	PCR-DGGE; barcoded Illumina sequencing; cultivation-dependent; microbial ecology; soidon; traditional food fermentation; Bambusa; DNA, Bacterial; Ecosystem; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; India; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillaceae; Leuconostoc; Leuconostocaceae; Metagenome; Molecular Sequence Data; Phylogeny; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Romi	Wahengbam
25887587	10.1186/s12896-015-0116-1	Synthesis of Fructooligosaccharides by IslA4, a truncated inulosucrase from Leuconostoc citreum.	IslA4 is a truncated single domain protein derived from the inulosucrase IslA, which is a multidomain fructosyltransferase produced by Leuconostoc citreum. IslA4 can synthesize high molecular weight inulin from sucrose, with a residual sucrose hydrolytic activity. IslA4 has been reported to retain the product specificity of the multidomain enzyme. Screening experiments to evaluate the influence of the reactions conditions, especially the sucrose and enzyme concentrations, on IslA4 product specificity revealed that high sucrose concentrations shifted the specificity of the reaction towards fructooligosaccharides (FOS) synthesis, which almost eliminated inulin synthesis and led to a considerable reduction in sucrose hydrolysis. Reactions with low IslA4 activity and a high sucrose activity allowed for high levels of FOS synthesis, where 70% sucrose was used for transfer reactions, with 65% corresponding to transfructosylation for the synthesis of FOS. Domain truncation together with the s	2016	1	15	BMC Biotechnol	BMC biotechnology	Bacterial Proteins; Hexosyltransferases; Inulin; Leuconostoc; Oligosaccharides; Protein Structure, Tertiary; Sucrose	Pe..a-Carde..a	Arlen
25882072	10.1016/j.plasmid.2015.03.008	Construction of a shuttle vector based on the small cryptic plasmid pJY33 from Weissella cibaria 33.	A cryptic plasmid, pJY33, from Weissella cibaria 33 was characterized. pJY33 was 2365 bp in size with a GC content of 41.27% and contained two putative open reading frames (ORFs). orf1 encoded a putative hypothetical protein of 134 amino acids. orf2 was 849...bp in size, and its putative translation product exhibited 87% identity with a replication initiation factor from a plasmid from W. cibaria KLC140. A Weissella-Escherichia coli shuttle vector, pJY33E (6.5...kb, Em(r)), was constructed by ligation of pJY33 with pBluescript II SK(-) and an erythromycin resistance gene (Em(r)). pJY33E replicated in Lactococcus lactis, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Weissella confusa. A single-stranded DNA intermediate was detected from Lb. brevis 2.14 harbouring pJY33E, providing evidence for rolling-circle replication of pJY33. Most Lb. brevis 2.14 cells (85.9%) retained pJY33E after one week of daily culturing in MRS broth without Em. An aga gene encoding ..	2016	4	28	Plasmid	Plasmid	Rolling circle replication; Shuttle vector; Weissella cibaria; pJY33E; Base Composition; DNA Replication; DNA, Bacterial; Erythromycin; Escherichia coli; Genetic Vectors; Lactobacillus plantarum; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Open Reading Frames; Plasmids; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Weissella	Park	Ji Yeong
25756290	10.1111/febs.13261	Inventory of the GH70 enzymes encoded by Leuconostoc..citreum NRRL B-1299 - identification of three novel ..-transglucosylases.	Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1299 has long been known to produce ..-glucans containing both ..-(1...6) and ..-(1...2) linkages, which are synthesized by ..-transglucosylases of the GH70 family. We sequenced the genome of Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1299 to identify the full inventory of GH70 enzymes in this strain. Three new genes (brsA, dsrM and dsrDP) putatively encoding GH70 enzymes were identified. The corresponding recombinant enzymes were characterized. Branching sucrase A (BRS-A) grafts linear ..-(1...6) dextran with ..-(1...2)-linked glucosyl units, and is probably involved in the ..-(1...2) branching of L. citreum NRRL B-1299 dextran. This is the first report of a naturally occurring ..-(1...2) branching sucrase. DSR-M and DSR-DP are dextransucrases that are specific for ..-(1...6) linkage synthesis and mainly produce oligomers or short dextrans with molar masses between 580 and 27 000 g..mol(-1) . In addition, DSR-DP contains sequences that diverge from the consensus sequences t	2015	8	6	FEBS J	The FEBS journal	Leuconostoc..citreum NRRL B-1299; branching sucrase; dextransucrase; glucansucrase; ..-transglucosylase; Amino Acid Sequence; Bacterial Proteins; Glucosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Molecular Sequence Annotation; Molecular Sequence Data; Substrate Specificity	Passerini	Delphine
30682297	10.1094/PDIS-06-16-0860-RE	Lactic Acid Bacteria Cause a Leaf Blight and Bulb Decay of Onion (Allium cepa).	Several members of the lactic acid bacteria group were isolated from diseased onion plants and bulbs. Based on growth characteristics and sequence analysis of 16S rRNA and rpoA genes, the strains were identified as Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus plantarum, and three species of Leuconostoc, i.e., citreum, mesenteroides, and pseudomesenteroides. Pathogenic potential to onion leaves and mature onion bulbs was assessed. L. plantarum and all three Leuconostoc species caused symptoms in both leaves and bulbs. L. lactis caused scale discoloration in bulbs but failed to cause lesions on leaves. Leuconostoc citreum caused bulb decay in 7 days at 18..C as well as 37..C. This is the first report of a group of gram-positive bacteria able to cause disease in onion leaves.	2019	11	20	Plant Dis	Plant disease	NA	Bonasera	Jean M
27889157	10.1016/j.fm.2016.10.014	Monitoring of wheat lactic acid bacteria from the field until the first step of dough fermentation.	The present work was carried out to retrieve the origin of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in sourdough. To this purpose, wheat LAB were monitored from ear harvest until the first step of fermentation for sourdough development. The influence of the geographical area and variety on LAB species/strain composition was also determined. The ears of four Triticum durum varieties (Duilio, Iride, Saragolla and Simeto) were collected from several fields located within the Palermo province (Sicily, Italy) and microbiologically investigated. In order to trace the transfer of LAB during the consecutive steps of manipulation, ears were transformed aseptically and, after threshing, milling and fermentation, samples of kernels, semolinas and doughs, respectively, were analysed. LAB were not found to dominate the microbial communities of the raw materials. In general, kernels harboured lower levels of microorganisms than ears and ears than semolinas. Several samples showing no development of LAB colonies a	2017	3	6	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Ears; Kernels; Lactic acid bacteria; MiSeq Illumina; Semolina; Sourdough; Wheat; Bacterial Load; Biodiversity; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Genotype; Italy; Lactobacillales; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Pediococcus; Phenotype; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Triticum	Alfonzo	Antonio
27717318	10.1186/s12879-016-1884-5	Recombinant domains III of Tick-Borne Encephalitis Virus envelope protein in combination with dextran and CpGs induce immune response and partial protectiveness against TBE virus infection in mice.	E protein of tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) and other flaviviruses is located on the surface of the viral particle. Domain III of this protein seems to be a promising component of subunit vaccines for prophylaxis of TBE and kits for diagnostics of TBEV. Three variants of recombinant TBEV E protein domain III of European, Siberian and Far Eastern subtypes fused with dextran-binding domain of Leuconostoc citreum KM20 were expressed in E. coli and purified. The native structure of domain III was confirmed by ELISA antibody kit and sera of patients with tick-borne encephalitis. Immunogenic and protective properties of the preparation comprising these recombinant proteins immobilized on a dextran carrier with CpG oligonucleotides as an adjuvant were investigated on the mice model. All 3 variants of recombinant proteins immobilized on dextran demonstrate specific interaction with antibodies from the sera of TBE patients. Thus, constructed recombinant proteins seem to be promising for T	2017	6	5	BMC Infect Dis	BMC infectious diseases	CpG oligonucleotides; Dextran-binding domain; Domain III; Envelope protein; Tick-borne encephalitis virus; Animals; Antibodies, Neutralizing; Antibodies, Viral; CpG Islands; Dextrans; Encephalitis Viruses, Tick-Borne; Encephalitis, Tick-Borne; Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay; Escherichia coli; Humans; Mice; Mice, Inbred BALB C; Protein Domains; Recombinant Fusion Proteins; Viral Envelope Proteins; Viral Vaccines	Ershova	Anna S
27375243	10.1016/j.fm.2016.05.006	Industrial application of selected lactic acid bacteria isolated from local semolinas for typical sourdough bread production.	Four obligate heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains (Weissella cibaria PON10030 and PON10032 and Leuconostoc citreum PON 10079 and PON10080) were tested as single strain starters, mono-species dual strain starters, and multiple strain starter for the preparation and propagation of sourdoughs for the production of a typical bread at industrial level. The kinetics of pH and TTA during the daily sourdough refreshments indicated a correct acidification process for all trials. The concentration of lactic and acetic acid increased consistently during fermentation. The resulting molar ratios between these two organic acids in the experimental trials were lower than those observed in the control trial. The microbiological investigation showed levels of approximately 10(9)..CFU/mL in almost all sourdoughs and the comparison of the genetic polymorphisms of the dominating LAB with those of the pure cultures evidenced the persistence of the added strains over time. The resulting br	2017	2	28	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Industrial application; Leuconostoc citreum; Sourdough; Starter culture; Typical bread; Weissella cibaria; Acetic Acid; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Industrial Microbiology; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Polymorphism, Genetic; Weissella	Corona	Onofrio
27374130	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.06.027	Development of a method for the direct fermentation of semolina by selected sourdough lactic acid bacteria.	Three obligately heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains (Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis PON100336, Leuconostoc citreum PON10079 and Weissella cibaria PON10030) were used in this study as a multi-species starter culture for sourdough production. The starter inoculum was prepared and propagated in sterile semolina extract (SSE) broth. Acidification kinetics, microbiological counts detected on specific media for sourdough LAB, polymorphic profile comparison and species-specific PCRs evidenced a stability of the liquid inoculum over time determining its suitability for direct addition to semolina. In order to validate this innovative method for the production of durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf) sourdoughs, 15 semolinas (from ten old and five modern genotypes cultivated in Sicily, southern Italy) were used to prepare the SSEs and to produce sourdoughs and finally breads. Chemical and microbiological analyses of the sourdoughs and the evaluation of the quality parameters (wei	2017	3	27	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Fermentation; Lactic acid bacteria; Quality parameters; Sourdough; Starter culture; Triticum durum genotypes; Volatile organic compounds; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Italy; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Triticum; Weissella	Alfonzo	Antonio
27332783	10.1111/1750-3841.13372	Microbial Diversity of Type I Sourdoughs Prepared and Back-Slopped with Wholemeal and Refined Soft (Triticum aestivum) Wheat Flours.	The fermentation of type I sourdough was studied for 20 d with daily back-slopping under laboratory and artisan bakery conditions using 1 wholemeal and 2 refined soft wheat (Triticum aestivum) flours. The sourdough bacterial and yeast diversity and dynamics were investigated by plate counting and a combination of culture-dependent and culture-independent PCR-DGGE approach. The pH, total titrable acidity, and concentration of key organic acids (phytic, lactic, and acetic) were measured. Three flours differed for both chemical and rheological properties. A microbial succession was observed, with the atypical sourdough species detected at day 0 (i.e. Lactococcus lactis and Leuconostoc holzapfelii/citreum group for bacteria and Candida silvae and Wickerhamomyces anomalus for yeasts) being progressively replaced by taxa more adapted to the sourdough ecosystem (Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus alimentarius/paralimentarius, Saccharomyces cerevisiae). In mature sourdoughs, a notably differe	2017	4	14	J Food Sci	Journal of food science	PCR-DGGE; high extraction rate flour; high-fiber breadmaking; high-fiber sourdough; sourdough microbiota; Bacteria; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Handling; Food Microbiology; Humans; Lactobacillus; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Species Specificity; Triticum; Whole Grains	Taccari	Manuela
27283670	10.1016/j.foodchem.2016.05.046	Synthesis and characterization of glucosyl stevioside using Leuconostoc dextransucrase.	Glucosyl stevioside was synthesized via transglucosylation by dextransucrase from Leuconostoc citreum KM20 (LcDexT), forming ..-d-glucosyl stevioside. A production yield of 94% was reached after 5days of LcDexT reaction at 30..C. Glucosyl stevioside induced a 2-fold improved quality of taste and sweetness, compared to stevioside. After 15days of storage at 25..C, 98% of glucosyl stevioside in an aqueous solution was present in a soluble form, compared to only 11% for stevioside or rebaudioside A. Furthermore, glucosyl stevioside exhibited a similar or improved stability in commercially available soft drinks, when compared to stevioside and rebaudioside A. These results suggest that glucosyl stevioside could serve as a highly pure and stable sweetener in soft drinks. 	2017	1	19	Food Chem	Food chemistry	Dextransucrase; Leuconostoc citreum; Rebaudioside A; Stevioside; Carbonated Beverages; Diterpenes, Kaurane; Food Additives; Glucosides; Glucosyltransferases; Humans; Leuconostoc; Sweetening Agents; Taste Perception	Ko	Jin-A
27271320	10.1111/jam.13198	Effect of temperature (5-25..C) on epiphytic lactic acid bacteria populations and fermentation of whole-plant corn silage.	The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of temperature (5-25..C) on epiphytic lactic acid bacteria (LAB) populations during 60..days of fermentation of whole-plant corn silage. Vacuum bag mini-silos of chopped whole-plant corn were incubated at five different temperatures (5, 10, 15, 20 and 25..C), according to a completely randomized design with four repetitions. The silos were opened and sampled on day 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 28 and 60. At 20 and 25..C, Lactobacillus...plantarum- and Pediococcus ...pentosaceus-related operational taxonomic units (OTU) dominated the fermentation within 1..day. After 7..days, the OTU related to the heterofermentative species Lactobacillus buchneri began to appear and it eventually dominated silages incubated at these temperatures. Population dynamic of LAB at 5 and 10..C was different. At these temperatures, Leuconostoc citreum OTU was identified at the beginning of the fermentation. Thereafter, Lactobacillus sakei- and Lactobacillus curvatus-	2017	4	4	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	cold climate; denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis; inoculant; lactic acid bacteria; microbial succession; temperature gradient; Aerobiosis; Fermentation; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillus; Pediococcus; Silage; Temperature; Zea mays	Zhou	Y
27164499	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2016.05.019	Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 glucansucrase: Biochemical characterisation and de novo synthesis of ..-glucan.	The cell-associated glucansucrase from Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 was isolated, purified, characterized and used for de novo synthesis of ..-glucan and acceptor-products. The final specific glucansucrase activity was 1.4U/mg protein with 13.2-fold purification. The obtained glucansucrase had a molecular weight of 186kDa,Tm of 61.7 ..C and ...H of 176.7kJ/mol. The enzyme showed maximum activity at pH 5.0-6.0 and 45..C. The enzyme activity was enhanced by Ca(2+), Mn(2+) or Co(2+) ions, whereas the activity decreased as the methanol, ethanol, n-butanol, DMSO or isopropanol concentration increased. The chemical inhibitors including BD, DTNB, EDC or NBS also significantly inhibited enzyme activity. Km, Vmax and kcat of glucansucrase were 10.9mM, 3.6U/mg and 306.6 1/s, respectively. For de novo synthesis from sucrose, ..-glucan polymer with molecular weight of 1.5..10(7)g/mol and maltose acceptor products (trisaccharide, tetrasaccharide and pentasaccharide) were obtained by glucansucrase v	2017	3	8	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Characterization; De novo synthesis; L. citreum SK24.002 glucansucrase; Enzyme Inhibitors; Enzyme Stability; Food Handling; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Maltose; Metals; Molecular Weight; Solvents; Temperature	Song	Liping
27088869	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.04.011	Community dynamics and metabolite target analysis of spontaneous, backslopped barley sourdough fermentations under laboratory and bakery conditions.	Barley flour is not commonly used for baking because of its negative effects on bread dough rheology and loaf volume. However, barley sourdoughs are promising ingredients to produce improved barley-based breads. Spontaneous barley sourdough fermentations were performed through backslopping (every 24h, 10days) under laboratory (fermentors, controlled temperature of 30..C, high dough yield of 400) and bakery conditions (open vessels, ambient temperature of 17-22..C, low dough yield of 200), making use of the same batch of flour. They differed in pH evolution, microbial community dynamics, and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) species composition. After ten backsloppings, the barley sourdoughs were characterized by the presence of the LAB species Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Lactobacillus brevis in the case of the laboratory productions (fast pH decrease, pH&lt;4.0 after two backslopping steps), and of Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Weissella confusa and	2017	2	14	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Bakery fermentation; Barley; Laboratory fermentation; Lactic acid bacteria; Metabolite target analysis; Sourdough; Species diversity; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Hordeum; Lactobacillales; Lactobacillus fermentum; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Triticum; Weissella	Harth	Henning
26907755	10.4014/jmb.1512.12035	Microbial Community Structure of Korean Cabbage Kimchi and Ingredients with Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis.	Kimchi is a traditional Korean fermented vegetable food, the production of which involves brining of Korean cabbage, blending with various other ingredients (red pepper powder, garlic, ginger, salt-pickled seafood, etc.), and fermentation. Recently, kimchi has also become popular in the Western world because of its unique taste and beneficial properties such as antioxidant and antimutagenic activities, which are derived from the various raw materials and secondary metabolites of the fermentative microorganisms used during production. Despite these useful activities, analysis of the microbial community present in kimchi has received relatively little attention. The objective of this study was to evaluate the bacterial community structure from the raw materials, additives, and final kimchi product using the culture-independent method. Specifically, polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) was used to analyze the 16S rRNA partial sequences of the microf	2017	3	16	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis; bacterial community; kimchi; kimchi ingredients; Bacteria; Brassica; DNA, Bacterial; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Lactobacillales; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Microbial Consortia; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S	Hong	Sung Wook
26881738	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.02.004	Bacterial diversity of floor drain biofilms and drain waters in a Listeria monocytogenes contaminated food processing environment.	Sanitation protocols are applied on a daily basis in food processing facilities to prevent the risk of cross-contamination with spoilage organisms. Floor drain water serves along with product-associated samples (slicer dust, brine or cheese smear) as an important hygiene indicator in monitoring Listeria monocytogenes in food processing facilities. Microbial communities of floor drains are representative for each processing area and are influenced to a large degree by food residues, liquid effluents and washing water. The microbial communities of drain water are steadily changing, whereas drain biofilms provide more stable niches. Bacterial communities of four floor drains were characterized using 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing to better understand the composition and exchange of drain water and drain biofilm communities. Furthermore, the L. monocytogenes contamination status of each floor drain was determined by applying cultivation-independent real-time PCR quantification and cultivatio	2016	8	19	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing; Bacteria; Drain biofilm; Drain water; Floor drain; Listeria monocytogenes; Bacteria; Biodiversity; Biofilms; Environmental Microbiology; Floors and Floorcoverings; Food Handling; Listeria monocytogenes; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Waste Water	Dzieciol	Monika
26809800	10.4014/jmb.1512.12085	Glucosyl Rubusosides by Dextransucrases Improve the Quality of Taste and Sweetness.	Glucosyl rubusosides were synthesized by two dextransucrases. LcDexT was obtained from Leuconosotoc citreum, that LlDexT was obtained from Leuconostoc lactis. LcDexT and LlDexT regioselectively transferred a glucosyl residue to the 13-O-glucosyl moiety of rubusoside with high yield of 59-66% as analyzed by TLC and HPLC. Evaluation of the sweetness of these glucosyl rubusosides showed that their quality of taste, in particular, was superior to that of rubusoside. These results indicate that transglucosylation at the 13-O-glucosyl moiety of rubusoside by different regioselective dextransucrases can be applicable for increasing its sweetness and quality of taste. 	2016	12	13	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Acceptor reaction; Leuconostoc citreum; Leuconostoc lactis; dextransucrase; rubusoside; Bacterial Proteins; Biocatalysis; Diterpenes, Kaurane; Flavoring Agents; Glucosides; Glucosyltransferases; Glycosylation; Humans; Leuconostoc; Taste	Ko	Jin-A
26767787	10.1186/s12934-015-0400-8	Development of a high-copy plasmid for enhanced production of recombinant proteins in Leuconostoc citreum.	Leuconostoc is a hetero-fermentative lactic acid bacteria, and its importance is widely recognized in the dairy industry. However, due to limited genetic tools including plasmids for Leuconostoc, there has not been much extensive research on the genetics and engineering of Leuconostoc yet. Thus, there is a big demand for high-copy-number plasmids for useful gene manipulation and overproduction of recombinant proteins in Leuconostoc. Using an existing low-copy plasmid, the copy number of plasmid was increased by random mutagenesis followed by FACS-based high-throughput screening. First, a random library of plasmids was constructed by randomizing the region responsible for replication in Leuconostoc citreum; additionally, a superfolder green fluorescent protein (sfGFP) was used as a reporter protein. With a high-speed FACS sorter, highly fluorescent cells were enriched, and after two rounds of sorting, single clone exhibiting the highest level of sfGFP was isolated. The copy number of th	2016	9	30	Microb Cell Fact	Microbial cell factories	Bacterial Proteins; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Leuconostoc; Plasmids; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Recombinant Proteins	Son	Yeon Jeong
26726815	10.1371/journal.pone.0145203	Antibiotic Susceptibility Profiles of Dairy Leuconostoc, Analysis of the Genetic Basis of Atypical Resistances and Transfer of Genes In Vitro and in a Food Matrix.	In spite of a global concern on the transfer of antibiotic resistances (AR) via the food chain, limited information exists on this issue in species of Leuconostoc and Weissella, adjunct cultures used as aroma producers in fermented foods. In this work, the minimum inhibitory concentration was determined for 16 antibiotics in 34 strains of dairy origin, belonging to Leuconostoc mesenteroides (18), Leuconostoc citreum (11), Leuconostoc lactis (2), Weissella hellenica (2), and Leuconostoc carnosum (1). Atypical resistances were found for kanamycin (17 strains), tetracycline and chloramphenicol (two strains each), and erythromycin, clindamycin, virginiamycin, ciprofloxacin, and rifampicin (one strain each). Surprisingly, L. mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides LbE16, showed resistance to four antibiotics, kanamycin, streptomycin, tetracycline and virginiamycin. PCR analysis identified tet(S) as responsible for tetracycline resistance in LbE16, but no gene was detected in a second tetracyclin	2016	6	27	PLoS One	PloS one	Animals; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Cattle; Dairying; Genes, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Microbial Sensitivity Tests	Fl..rez	Ana Bel..n
30263726	10.1007/s10068-017-0274-0	Isolation of lactic acid bacteria starters from <i>Jeung</i>-<i>pyun</i> for sourdough fermentation.	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are key for the fermentation of sourdoughs to improve the quality and nutritive value of bread. The aim of this study was to isolate the LAB starter for sourdough fermentation from Jeung-pyun, a Korean traditional rice cake. Among the twenty two LAB screened, five isolates were selected based on exo-polysaccharide production. Among them, three isolates showed cell growth greater than 8.5..Log CFU/g, maximum increase in the volume of dough, and dextran concentration up to 0.16%. During the sourdough fermentation, pH and total titratable acidity (TTA) were changed, as the three isolates synthesized lactic acid and acetic acid with fermentation quotients less than 2.0. They were identified as Leuconostoc lactis EFEL005, Lactobacillus brevis EFEL004, and Le. citreum EFEL006. They displayed good fermentation properties (growth, dextran production, pH, and TTA) in dough and they are regarded as potential starters to be used in sou	2020	10	1	Food Sci Biotechnol	Food science and biotechnology	Exo-polysaccharides; Fermentation; Jeung-pyun; Lactic acid bacteria; Sourdough	Lim	Sae Bom
29192074	10.1128/genomeA.01283-17	Draft Genome Sequence of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> CW28 Isolated from Pozol, a Pre-Hispanic Fermented Corn Beverage.	Leuconostoc citreum CW28 was isolated from pozol, a Mayan fermented corn beverage. This strain produces a cell-associated inulosucrase, the first described in bacteria. Its draft genome sequence, announced here, has an estimated size of 1.98..Mb and harbors 1,915 coding genes, 12 rRNAs, 68 tRNAs, 17 putative pseudogenes, and 1 putative phage.	2020	10	1	Genome Announc	Genome announcements	NA	Olvera	Clarita
29080817	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2017.10.155	Production and structural characterization of exopolysaccharides from newly isolated probiotic lactic acid bacteria.	In this work, four exopolysaccharide-producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains, newly isolated from Tunisian spontaneously fermented foods and beverages, namely bovine and turkey meat sausages (BMS and TMS), date palm sap (DPS) and cow milk (CM), were identified as Leuconostoc citreum-BMS, Leuconostoc mesenteroides-TMS, Pediococcus pentosaceus-DPS and Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides-CM, respectively. The isolated strains showed the ability to withstand simulated human gastrointestinal (GI) tract conditions (low pH, lysozyme, bile salts, pepsin and pancreatin) and showed high surface hydrophobicity (79-90%), besides their ability to act against Escherichia coli and Listeria monocytogenes and to produce exopolysaccharides (EPS). Therefore, these isolates can be served as potential probiotics. The produced EPS were growth-associated suggesting that they are primary metabolites. The molecular weights were higher than 10<sup>6</sup>Da using HPLC-SEC. 2D-NMR results indicated that all the	2018	8	3	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Anti-biofilm activity; Exopolysaccharides; Lactic acid bacteria; Structural characterization; Thermostability; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Antibiosis; Bile Acids and Salts; Biofilms; Disk Diffusion Antimicrobial Tests; Humans; Lactobacillales; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Microbial Viability; Molecular Structure; Molecular Weight; Monosaccharides; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Probiotics; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared	Abid	Yousra
28813779	10.4014/jmb.1705.05022	DNA Profiling of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> Strains in Fermented Foods by Repetitive Element Polymerase Chain Reaction.	To identify and discriminate the bacterial species at the subspecific level, rep-PCR is a reliable genomic fingerprinting tool. Fourteen strains of bacteria were isolated from different food sources, identified as Leuconostoc citreum using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and amplified using rep-primers (REP, ERIC, and (GTG)5). Fingerprinting patterns generated bands in the range of 300-6,000 bp with REP, 150-6,000 bp with ERIC, and 200-1,700 bp with (GTG)5 primers. In UPGMA dendrogram analysis, 14 strains were clustered into three clades (I, II, and III) with all the primers, thus differentiating them at the molecular level. The present study revealed the differentiation of L. citreum strains using rep-PCR.	2018	6	1	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	(GTG)5-PCR; ERIC-PCR; Leuconostoc citreum; rep-PCR; Bacterial Typing Techniques; Base Sequence; DNA Fingerprinting; DNA Primers; DNA, Bacterial; Fermented Foods; Food Microbiology; Genes, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Molecular Typing; Phylogeny; Polymerase Chain Reaction; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Repetitive Sequences, Nucleic Acid; Republic of Korea; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Species Specificity	Kaur	Jasmine
28619795	10.1128/genomeA.00507-17	Genome Sequence of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> DmW_111, Isolated from Wild <i>Drosophila</i>.	Isolates of the lactic acid bacterium Leuconostoc citreum are a major part of fermentation processes, especially in Korean kimchi. Here, we present the genome of L...citreum DmW_111, isolated from wild Drosophila melanogaster; analysis of this genome will expand the diversity of genome sequences for non-Lactobacillus spp. isolated from D. melanogaster.	2020	10	1	Genome Announc	Genome announcements	NA	Wright	Sage M
28576370	10.1016/j.fm.2017.04.001	Leuconostoc strains isolated from dairy products: Response against food stress conditions.	A systematic study about the intrinsic resistance of 29 strains (26 autochthonous and 3 commercial ones), belonging to Leuconostoc genus, against diverse stress factors (thermal, acidic, alkaline, osmotic and oxidative) commonly present at industrial or conservation processes were evaluated. Exhaustive result processing was made by applying one-way ANOVA, Student's test (t), multivariate analysis by Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Matrix Hierarchical Cluster Analysis. In addition, heat adaptation on 4 strains carefully selected based on previous data analysis was assayed. The strains revealed wide diversity of resistance to stress factors and, in general, a clear relationship between resistance and Leuconostoc species was established. In this sense, the highest resistance was shown by Leuconostoc lactis followed by Leuconostoc mesenteroides strains, while Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides and Leuconostoc citreum strains revealed the lowest resistance to the stress factors applied.	2017	8	24	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Heat adaptation; Lactic acid bacteria; Leuconostoc; Stress; Dairy Products; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Microbial Viability; Stress, Physiological	D'Angelo	Luisa
28433723	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2017.04.018	Elimination of the cryptic plasmid in Leuconostoc citreum by CRISPR/Cas9 system.	Leuconostoc spp. are important lactic acid bacteria for the fermentation of foods. In particular, L. citreum strains isolated from various foods have been used as host strains for genetic and metabolic engineering studies. In order to develop a food-grade genetic engineering system, L. citreum CB2567 was isolated from Kimchi. However, the isolated bacterium contained a cryptic plasmid which was difficult to eliminate. As the existence of the plasmid might hinder strain engineering, we eliminated the plasmid using an RNA-guided DNA endonuclease CRISPR/Cas9 system. We demonstrated that a plasmid-free L. citreum CB2567 host strain could be efficiently constructed through a two-step procedure: 1) transformation of the "killer" plasmid expressing Cas9 endonuclease and a guide RNA (gRNA) targeting for a specific sequence in the cryptic plasmid, and 2) serial subculture without antibiotics for curing the killer plasmid. When the crude extract of L. citreum expressing Cas9 and the guide RNA wa	2018	2	5	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	CRISPR/Cas9; Cryptic plasmid; Genetic engineering; Lactic acid bacteria; Leuconostoc; CRISPR-Cas Systems; Genetic Engineering; Leuconostoc; Plasmids	Jang	Ye-Ji
31208534	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2018.06.026	Leuconostoc citreum TR116: In-situ production of mannitol in sourdough and its application to reduce sugar in burger buns.	A marketing study revealed that commercially available burger buns can contain up to 10% (w/w) of added sugar. In order to reduce sugar and maintaining the product quality at the same time, functional ingredients and alternative sweetening agents have to be incorporated. In this study, the sourdough lactic acid bacteria Leuconostoc citreum TR116, selected for its ability to produce high amounts of mannitol, was used to produce wheat sourdough and its biochemical characteristics (cell count, pH, TTA, sugar- and acid profile, as well as mannitol production) were monitored over 48...h. The so produced sourdough was then incorporated, as a functional ingredient, into a sugar reduced burger bun system and the quality characteristics of the dough and the final product were determined. Sourdough incorporation counteract the negative effects of sugar reduction on dough properties and resulted in the same viscoelastic properties (0.423........0.008) and gluten-network-development (PMT: 160.....	2019	8	19	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Fermentation; Lactic acid bacteria; Mannitol; Sugar reduction; Wheat; Bread; Fermentation; Glutens; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Mannitol; Sugars; Triticum	Sahin	Aylin W
30483440	10.1007/s10068-018-0417-y	Analysis of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> strains using multilocus sequence typing.	The objective of this study was to perform genetic diversity analysis of 13 strains isolated from South Korean foods by multilocus sequence typing (MLST). For typing, seven housekeeping loci (atpA, dnaA, dnaK, gyrB, pheS, pyrG, and rpoA) were selected, amplified and analyzed. Fifty-one polymorphic sites varying from 1 to 22 in each species were identified. Thirteen sequence types were generated with allele numbers ranged from 2 to 10. The overall relationship between strains was assessed by unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean dendrogram and minimum spanning tree. In addition, combined spits tree analysis revealed intragenic recombination. No clear relationship was observed between the isolation sources and strains. The developed MLST scheme enhanced our knowledge of the population diversity of Leu. citreum strains and will be used further for the selection of industrially important strain.	2020	9	30	Food Sci Biotechnol	Food science and biotechnology	Alleles; Lactic acid bacteria; Leuconostoc citreum; MLST; Sequence type	Sharma	Anshul
30342080	10.1016/j.micpath.2018.10.018	Antioxidant and immunostimulatory effect of potential probiotic Lactobacillus paraplantarum SC61 isolated from Korean traditional fermented food, jangajji.	This study aimed to isolate and demonstrate their antioxidant and immunostimulatory activities of potential probiotics. The isolated strains, S. Pum19, SC28, and SC61 showed potential probiotic properties including stability in artificial gastric and bile conditions, non-production of ..-glucuronidase, suitable antibiotic susceptibility, and attachment to intestinal cells. S. Pum19, SC28, and SC61 strains were identified as Leuconostoc citreum, Pediococcus pentosaceus, and Lactobacillus paraplantarum, respectively. Of the 3 potential probiotic LAB strains, intact cells of L. paraplantarum SC61 showed higher antioxidant activity, including DPPH radical scavenging, ..-carotene bleaching inhibition, reducing power, superoxide anion scavenging, and ABTS radical scavenging activity. In addition, L. paraplantarum SC61 produced the most nitric oxide production and its mRNA expression level for iNOS, IL-1.., IL-6, and TNF-.. were superior to those of L. rhamnosus GG. Therefore, L. paraplantaru	2019	1	28	Microb Pathog	Microbial pathogenesis	Antioxidant activity; Immunostimulatory activity; Lactobacillus; Probiotic; Safety; Antioxidants; Bile Acids and Salts; Biphenyl Compounds; Fermented Foods; Free Radical Scavengers; Immunologic Factors; Korea; Lactobacillus; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Microbial Viability; Picrates; Probiotics; Superoxides	Son	Sung-Ho
30218539	10.1111/lam.13073	Isolation and characterization of an exopolysaccharide-producing Leuconostoc citreum strain from artisanal cheese.	High molar mass exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced from sucrose by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are of great interest as natural additives to use in foods, medical and pharmaceutical industry. This study aimed to identify the EPS produced by Leuconostoc citreum L3C1E7 isolated from Pico cheese and characterize the strain for technological and probiotic potential. Purified EPS was isolated from the culture of L. citreum L3C1E7 by ethanol precipitation, with a yield of 520..mg..ml<sup>-1</sup> . The EPS-producing strain had a mucoid phenotype and average molecular weight of 5..88......10<sup>6</sup> ..Da. The structural characterization of the purified EPS was determined by <sup>1</sup> H, <sup>13</sup> C and two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy. EPS was composed of alternating ..-(1...6)-linked and ..-(1...3)-linked D-glucopyranyl units, suggesting the existence of an alternan. The strain was slow acidifying, produced diacetyl and displayed high esterase/lipase and aminopeptidase activities, w	2019	1	11	Lett Appl Microbiol	Letters in applied microbiology	biopolymers; exopolysaccharide; fermented foods; lactic acid bacteria; probiotics; Bacterial Adhesion; Caco-2 Cells; Cell Line; Cheese; Fermentation; Gastrointestinal Tract; HT29 Cells; Humans; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Weight; Plasmids; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Probiotics	Domingos-Lopes	M F P
30166137	10.1016/j.fm.2018.05.003	Performance of Leuconostoc citreum FDR241 during wheat flour sourdough type I propagation and transcriptional analysis of exopolysaccharides biosynthesis genes.	This study focused on the performance of the dextran producer Leuconostoc citreum as starter culture during 30 days of wheat flour type I sourdough propagation (back-slopping). As confirmed by RAPD-PCR analysis, the strain dominated throughout the propagation procedure, consisting of daily fermentations at 20.....C. The sourdoughs were characterized by consistent lactic acid bacteria cell density and acidification parameters, reaching pH values of 4.0 and mild titratable acidity. Carbohydrates consumption remained consistent during the propagation procedure, leading to formation of mannitol and almost equimolar amount of lactic and acetic acid. The addition of sucrose enabled the formation of dextran, inducing an increase in viscosity of the sourdough of 2-2.6 fold, as well as oligosaccharides. The transcriptional analysis based on glucosyltransferases genes (GH70) showed the existence in L. citreum FDR241 of at least five different dextransucrases. Among these, only one gene, previous	2019	1	30	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Exopolysaccharides; Glycosyltransferase; Leuconostoc citreum; Sourdough; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Gene Expression Profiling; Glucosyltransferases; Glycosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Sucrose; Transcription, Genetic; Triticum	Coda	Rossana
30142412	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2018.08.008	Complete genome sequence of Leuconostoc citreum EFEL2700, a host strain for transformation of pCB vectors.	Leuconostoc citreum is an important lactic acid bacterium used as a starter culture for producing kimchi, the traditional Korean fermented vegetables. An efficient host strain for plasmid transformation, L. citreum EFEL2700, was isolated from kimchi, and it has been frequently used for genetic engineering of L. citreum. In this study, we report the whole genome sequence of the strain and its genetic characteristics. Genome assembly yielded 5 contigs (1 chromosome and 4 plasmids), and the complete genome contained 1,923,830 base pairs (bp) with a G...+...C content of 39.0%. Average nucleotide identity analysis showed high homology (... 99%) to the reference strain L. citreum KM 20. The smallest plasmid (4.3 kbp) was used as an Escherichia coli shuttle vector (pCB) for heterologous gene expression, and L. citreum EFEL2700 showed the highest transformation efficiency, 6.7........10... CFU ..g<sup>-1</sup> DNA. Genetic analysis of the genome enabled the construction of primary metabolic pa	2018	12	28	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Competent transformation host; Complete genome sequence; Genetic engineering; Kimchi; Leuconostoc; Base Sequence; DNA, Bacterial; Fermented Foods; Genetic Engineering; Genetic Vectors; Genome, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Kim	Seul-Ah
30031986	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2018.07.013	Polyol-producing lactic acid bacteria isolated from sourdough and their application to reduce sugar in a quinoa-based milk substitute.	The interest for plant-based dairy substitutes is expanding rapidly and consumers are opting for nutritious and healthy dairy alternatives. The reduction of sugar using different exogenous enzymes in combination with lactic acid fermentation in a quinoa-based milk substitute was explored in this study. Different amylolytic enzymes were used to release sugar from the raw material, which were further metabolised to mannitol, due to fermentation with two heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria. Using these two biotechnological techniques enables the reduction of sugar, while also preserving some of the sweetness. Leuconostoc citreum TR116, and Lactobacillus brevis TR055 were isolated from sourdough. Both strains showed high viable cell counts with L. citreum TR116...&gt;...8.4 and L. brevis TR055...&gt;...9.3...log...cfu/mL, and a reduction in pH to 3.7 and 3.5 respectively. When fructose was available, mannitol was produced in conjunction with acetic acid in addition to lactic acid. Due 	2018	12	18	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Glycaemic index; Lactic acid bacteria; Mannitol; Milk substitute; Quinoa; Sugar reduction; Acetic Acid; Biotechnology; Chenopodium quinoa; Fermentation; Fructose; Glucose; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus brevis; Leuconostoc; Mannitol; Milk Substitutes; Polymers; Sugars	Jeske	Stephanie
29891982	10.1038/s41598-018-27091-z	Development of bicistronic expression system for the enhanced and reliable production of recombinant proteins in Leuconostoc citreum.	The lactic acid bacteria (LAB) Leuconostoc citreum are non-sporulating hetero-fermentative bacteria that play an important role in the fermented food industry. In this study, for the enhanced and reliable production of recombinant proteins in L. citreum, we developed a bicistronic design (BCD) expression system which includes a short leader peptide (1<sup>st</sup> cistron) followed by target genes (2<sup>nd</sup> cistron) under the control of a single promoter. Using superfolder green fluorescent protein (sfGFP) as a reporter, the functionality of BCD in L. citreum was verified. Further, to improve the expression in BCD, we tried to engineer a Shine-Dalgarno sequence (SD2) for the 2<sup>nd</sup> cistron and a promoter by FACS screening of random libraries, and both strong SD2 (eSD2) and promoter (P710V4) were successfully isolated. The usefulness of the engineered BCD with P710V4 and eSD2 was further validated using three model proteins-glutathione-s-transferase, 	2019	11	4	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Glutathione Transferase; Green Fluorescent Proteins; Human Growth Hormone; Leuconostoc; Recombinant Proteins; alpha-Amylases	Jang	Seung Hoon
29844508	10.1038/s41598-018-26721-w	An ..-1,6-and ..-1,3-linked glucan produced by Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1 alternansucrase with nanoparticle and film-forming properties.	Alternansucrase catalyses the sequential transfer of glucose residues from sucrose onto another sucrose molecule to form a long chain polymer, known as "alternan". The alternansucrase-encoding gene from Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1 (Lcalt) was successfully cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Lcalt encoded LcALT of 2,057 amino acid residues; the enzyme possessed an optimum temperature and pH of 40.....C and 5.0, respectively, and its' activity was stimulated up to 2.4-fold by the presence of Mn<sup>2+</sup>. Kinetic studies of LcALT showed a high transglycosylation activity, with Km 32.2........3.2...mM and kcat 290........12...s<sup>-1</sup>. Alternan generated by LcALT (Lc-alternan) harbours partially alternating ..-1,6 and ..- 1,3 glycosidic linkages confirmed by NMR spectroscopy, methylation analysis, and partial hydrolysis of Lc-alternan products. In contrast to previously reported alternans, Lc-alternan can undergo self-assembly, forming nanoparticles with an average	2019	11	4	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Escherichia coli; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Molecular Weight; Sucrose	Wangpaiboon	Karan
29655886	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.04.068	Lactobacillus hordei dextrans induce Saccharomyces cerevisiae aggregation and network formation on hydrophilic surfaces.	Water kefir granules are supposed to mainly consist of dextrans produced by Lactobacillus (L.) hilgardii. Still, other microorganisms such as L. hordei, L. nagelii, Leuconostoc (Lc.) citreum and Saccharomyces (S.) cerevisiae are commonly isolated from water kefir granules, while their contribution to the granule formation remains unknown. We studied putative functions of these microbes in granule formation, upon development of a simplified model system containing hydrophilic object slides, which mimics the hydrophilic surface of a growing kefir granule. We found that all tested lactic acid bacteria produced glucans, while solely those isolated from the four different L. hordei strains induced yeast aggregation on the hydrophilic slides. Therefore, structural differences between these glucans were investigated with respect to their size distributions and their linkage types. Beyond the finding that all glucans were identified as dextrans, those of the four L. hordei strains were highly 	2018	10	9	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Dextran; Lactobacillus hordei; Network formation; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Water kefir; Dextrans; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Lactobacillus; Molecular Weight; Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Xu	Di
29502392	10.5713/ajas.17.0733	Effects of <i>Rubus coreanus</i> byproducts on intestinal microbiota and the immune modulation.	Although the efficacy of Rubus coreanus (RC) byproducts as a feed additive has been recognized, its effects on intestinal microorganisms and the immune system are still unknown. Six-week-old male rats were treated with 0.5% RC (T1), 1.0% RC (T2), and 1.5% RC (T3) for 4 weeks. We found that treatment with RC byproducts significantly increased the daily gain of body weight and feed intake. Treg-cell differentiation was enhanced in the mesenteric lymph nodes and spleen from the rats fed with RC byproducts. Illumina sequencing showed that bacteria in the phylum Firmicutes decreased and while those in the phylum Bacteroidetes increased in RC-treated groups. Particularly, the pathogenic microorganisms in the family Peptococcaceae decreased, and the non-pathogenic families Lachnospiraceae and S24-7 increased. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the RC byproducts increased the lactic acid bacteria Bifidobacterium spp., Oscillospira spp., Leuconostoc citreum, and Weissel	2020	9	30	Asian-Australas J Anim Sci	Asian-Australasian journal of animal sciences	Galectin-9; Illumina Sequencing; Immune Modulation; Intestinal Microbiota; Rubus coreanus; Th1/Th2 Balance	Yu	Da Yoon
29471088	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.02.119	Characterization of highly branched dextran produced by Leuconostoc citreum B-2 from pineapple fermented product.	A strain Leuconostoc citreum B-2 was isolated from homemade fermentation product of pineapple and its polysaccharide yield was 28.3g/L after cultivating the strain in Man-Rogosa-Sharpe (MRS) medium with 75g/L sucrose. The exopolysaccharide (EPS) was characterized by gas chromatography (GC), Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra, high-performance size-exclusion chromatography (HPSEC), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis in present study. The monosaccharide composition of EPS was glucose and molecular weight was 3.77..10<sup>6</sup>Da. FT-IR and NMR spectra revealed that the B-2 EPS was composed of 75% ..-(1...6) linked d-glucopyranose units existing in the main chain with 19% ..-(1...3) branching and only a few ..-(1...2) branching. The SEM of the dried EPS appeared irregular sheets with glittering surface and compact structure. Water solubility index and water holding capacity of B-2 EPS were 80% and 450%, respectively. All	2018	9	27	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Dextran; Exopolysaccharide; Leuconostoc citreum; Structural characterization; Ananas; Dextrans; Fermentation; Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions; Leuconostoc; Molecular Weight; Solubility; Water	Feng	Fang
29430723	10.1002/jobm.201700547	Artisanal tanneries: Potential application of inoculants formulated with lactic acid bacteria.	In artisanal tanneries, the skins are immersed in cereals fermented by natural microbial flora in order to reduce the pH of the skin, an essential condition for carrying out the final step. The environmental thermal variation alters the fermentation process and affects the quality of the final product. The aim of this work was to isolate lactic acid bacteria from cereals mixture fermented in an artisanal tannery and to evaluate in vitro the acidifying activity of the strains as a first step for the formulation of a starter culture. In most samples, a prevalence of cocci (95%) was observed with respect to bacilli. The best acidifying strains were identified by phenotypic and genotypic techniques as Enterococcus faecium CRL 1943 (rapid acidification at 37.....C) and Leuconostoc citreum CRL 1945 (high acidifying activity at 18.....C). In addition, the biomass production of the selected strains was analyzed at free and controlled pH (bioreactors 1.5...L). The production of biomass was opti	2018	11	23	J Basic Microbiol	Journal of basic microbiology	artisanal tanning; lactic inoculants; purging stage; Bioreactors; DNA, Bacterial; Edible Grain; Enterococcus faecium; Fermentation; Genotype; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillales; Leuconostoc; Phenotype; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Sequence Analysis, DNA; Tanning; Temperature	Correa Deza	Mar..a A
29081085	10.4014/jmb.1705.05044	Identification of LAB and Fungi in Laru, a Fermentation Starter, by PCR-DGGE, SDS-PAGE, and MALDI-TOF MS.	Samples of Laru (a fermentation starter) obtained from the upper part of Borneo Island were analyzed for their lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and fungal diversity using both a culture-independent method (PCR-DGGE) and culture-dependent methods (SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF MS). Pediococcus pentosaceus, Lactobacillus brevis, Saccharomycopsis fibuligera, Hyphopichia burtonii, and Kodamaea ohmeri were detected by all three methods. In addition, Weissella cibaria, Weissella paramesenteroides, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis, Rhizopus oryzae/Amylomyces rouxii, Mucor indicus, and Candida intermedia were detected by PCR-DGGE. In contrast, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum, Pichia anomala, Candida parapsilosis, and Candida orthopsilosis were detected only by the culture-dependent methods. Our results indicate that the culture-independent method can be used to determine whether multiple laru samples origina	2018	7	25	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Laru; PCR-DGGE; SDS-PAGE; lactic acid bacteria; ragi; Borneo; Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis; Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Fungi; Lactobacillales; Microbiological Techniques; Polymerase Chain Reaction; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Ahmadsah	Lenny S F
28527125	10.1007/s12602-017-9282-x	Diversity and Probiotic Potential of Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from Horreh, a Traditional Iranian Fermented Food.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the probiotic potential of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains isolated from Horreh. Some probiotic properties, e.g., resistance to acid, bile tolerance, antibacterial activity, and antibiotic susceptibility, were investigated. A total of 140 Gram-positive and catalase-negative isolates from Horreh were subjected to identification and grouping by cultural methods and the 16S rRNA sequencing. The new isolates were identified to be Lactobacillus (fermentum, plantarum, and brevis) Weissella cibaria, Enterococcus (faecium and faecalis), Leuconostoc (citreum and mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides) and Pediococcus pentosaceus. Probiotic potential study of LAB isolates showed that Lb. plantarum and Leu. mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides isolates were able to grow at pH..2.5 and 3.5. Lactobacillus plantarum (isolate A44) showed the highest cell hydrophobicity (84.5%). According to antibacterial activity tests, Listeria innocua and Staphylococcus aureus wer	2019	1	11	Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins	Probiotics and antimicrobial proteins	Horreh; Lactic acid bacteria; Probiotics; Traditional fermented food; Biodiversity; DNA, Bacterial; Fermented Foods; Iran; Lactobacillales; Phylogeny; Probiotics; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S	Vasiee	Alireza
31732069	10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108583	Sugar reduction in bakery products: Current strategies and sourdough technology as a potential novel approach.	The world is facing a big problem of non-communicable diseases, such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. An excessive sugar consumption is considered as a main factor, which triggers these diseases. The two main sources of sugar in processed products on the market are sugar-sweetened beverages and sweet bakery products. Sugar reduction is challenging, especially in baked goods, since it interacts significantly with all ingredients. These interactions cause an increase in gelatinization temperature, a delay in gluten network development, an increase or decrease in yeast activity depending on the sugar concentration, as well as an enhancement of emulsification. Reflecting the molecular interactions on the product quality characteristics of different types of baked goods, sugar also contributes to browning reactions and extension of microbial shelf life. During cake preparation, sugar supports the batter aeration which results in the typical soft cake crumb. Furthermore, it c	2020	11	2	Food Res Int	Food research international (Ottawa, Ont.)	Cakes; Exopolysaccharides; Health; Polyols; Sourdough; Sugar; Bread; Candida; Food Analysis; Food Microbiology; Glutens; Lactobacillales; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Starch; Sugars; Taste	Sahin	Aylin W
31703858	10.1016/j.fm.2019.103349	Persistence of a mixed lactic acid bacterial starter culture during lysine fortification of sourdough breads by addition of pistachio powder.	Pistachio powder was added to flour or semolina to evaluate its contribution to increase the amount of lysine in bread. Bread production was carried out by sourdough technology using a selected 3-species (Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis/Leuconostoc citreum/Weissella cibaria) lactic acid bacterial (LAB) starter culture. All sourdoughs were subjected to a long-time fermentation (21...h) and showed levels of LAB around 10<sup>9</sup>...CFU/g, indicating the suitability of pistachio powder for lactic fermentation. Yeasts were also detected, in particular in semolina trials. MiSeq Illumina technology was applied to investigate the bacterial composition of sourdoughs evidencing a different distribution of LAB species among the trials with Lactobacillus as major LAB group in almost all sourdoughs. Physicochemical parameters were comparable among the trials. After baking, pistachio powder was found not to influence the height of the breads, but pistachio breads were more firm than control bread	2020	2	20	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Bread fortification; Lactic acid bacteria; Lysine; Pistacia vera; Sourdough; Volatile organic compounds; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Additives; Food, Fortified; Humans; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Lysine; Pistacia; Taste; Weissella	Gaglio	Raimondo
31525416	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.09.071	Optimization and characterization of exopolysaccharides with a highly branched structure extracted from Leuconostoc citreum B-2.	The fermentation conditions for exopolysaccharides (EPS) with a highly branched structure extracted from Leuconostoc citreum B-2 were optimized by response surface methodology (RSM). The results showed that under the optimal fermentation conditions of sucrose, yeast extract and pH of 99.80...g/L, 5.94...g/L and 6.12, respectively, the B-2 EPS yield was 59.33........1.34...g/L, which was 5.93 times greater than that from the initial nonoptimized conditions. Chemical composition analysis showed that the carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and sulfur contents of the B-2 pure EPS (P-EPS) were 39.05........0.25%, 7.19........0.08%, 0.72........0.03% and 0%, respectively. The content of uronic acid was high, reaching 20.94........6.30%. B-2 EPS had certain 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), hydroxyl (..OH), superoxide anion (O<sup>2-</sup>), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), nitroso radical (NO<sup>2-</sup>) scavenging abilities and reducing power. The degradation temperature of the 	2020	6	5	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Antioxidant activity; Characterization; Exopolysaccharides; Leuconostoc citreum; Optimization; Animals; Anti-Infective Agents; Antioxidants; Culture Media; Emulsifying Agents; Fermentation; Free Radical Scavengers; Hydrogen Peroxide; Leuconostoc; Milk; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Power, Psychological; Probiotics; Sucrose; Temperature	Wang	Yu
31461615	10.1021/acs.jafc.9b03782	Enzymatic Process Yielding a Diversity of Inulin-Type Microbial Fructooligosaccharides.	The specificity of fructooligosaccharides as prebiotics depends on their size and structure, which in turn depend on their origin or the synthesis procedure. In this work we describe the application of an inulosucrase (IslA) from Leuconostoc citreum CW28 to produce high molecular weight inulin from sucrose alongside a commercial endoinulinase (Novozym 960) produced by Aspergillus niger for a simultaneous or sequential reaction to synthesize fructooligosaccharides (FOS). The simultaneous reaction resulted in a higher substrate conversion and a wide diversity of FOS when compared to the sequential reaction. A shotgun MS analysis of the commercial endoinulinase preparation surprisingly revealed an additional enzymatic activity: a fructosyltransferase, responsible for the synthesis of FOS from sucrose. Consequentially, the range of FOS obtained in reactions combining inulosucrase from Ln. citreum with the fructosyltransferase and endoinulinase from A. niger with	2019	10	10	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	endoinulinase; fructooligosaccharides; fructosyltransferase; inulin; inulosucrase; Aspergillus niger; Bacterial Proteins; Biocatalysis; Fungal Proteins; Glycoside Hydrolases; Hexosyltransferases; Inulin; Leuconostoc; Oligosaccharides; Sucrose	Vallejo-Garc..a	Luz Cristina
31399409	10.1128/AEM.01077-19	Pseudofructophilic Leuconostoc citreum Strain F192-5, Isolated from Satsuma Mandarin Peel.	Fructophilic lactic acid bacteria (FLAB), composed of Fructobacillus spp., Lactobacillus kunkeei, and Lactobacillus apinorum, are unique in that they prefer d-fructose over d-glucose as a carbon source. Strain F192-5, isolated from the peel of a satsuma mandarin and identified as Leuconostoc citreum, grows well on d-fructose but poorly on d-glucose and produces mainly lactate and acetate, with trace amounts of ethanol, from the metabolism of d-glucose. These characteristics are identical to those of obligate FLAB. However, strain F192-5 ferments a greater variety of carbohydrates than known FLAB. Comparative analyses of the genomes of strain F192-5 and reference strains of L. citreum revealed no signs of specific gene reductions, especially genes involved in carbohydrate transport and metabolism, in the genome of F192-5. The bifunctional alcohol/acetaldehyde dehydrogenase gene (adhE) is conserved in strain F192-5 but is not transcribed. This is	2020	7	23	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	Leuconostoc citreum; adhE; comparative genomics; fructophilic lactic acid bacteria; pseudofructophilic; Alcohol Dehydrogenase; Aldehyde Oxidoreductases; Bacterial Proteins; Citrus; Fructose; Leuconostoc	Maeno	Shintaro
31375489	10.1128/AEM.00997-19	Lysogeny in the Lactic Acid Bacterium Oenococcus oeni Is Responsible for Modified Colony Morphology on Red Grape Juice Agar.	Oenococcus oeni is the lactic acid bacterium (LAB) that most commonly drives malolactic fermentation in wine. Although oenococcal prophages are highly prevalent, their implications on bacterial fitness have remained unexplored and more research is required in this field. An important step toward achieving this goal is the ability to produce isogenic pairs of strains that differ only by the lysogenic presence of a given prophage, allowing further comparisons of different phenotypic traits. A novel protocol for the rapid isolation of lysogens is presented. Bacteria were first picked from the center of turbid plaques produced by temperate oenophages on a sensitive nonlysogenic host. When streaked onto an agar medium containing red grape juice (RGJ), cells segregated into white and red colonies. PCR amplifications with phage-specific primers demonstrated that only lysogens underwent white-red morphotypic switching. The method proved successful for various oenophages irrespective of 	2020	7	31	Appl Environ Microbiol	Applied and environmental microbiology	bacteriophages; lactic acid bacteria; lysogeny; Agar; Colony Count, Microbial; Culture Media; Fruit and Vegetable Juices; Lysogeny; Oenococcus; Phenotype; Phylogeny; Prophages; Vitis; Wine	Cha..b	Amel
31196527	10.1016/j.carbpol.2019.05.002	Modified properties of alternan polymers arising from deletion of SH3-like motifs in Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1 alternansucrase.	Alternansucrase (ALT, EC 2.4.1.140) catalyses the formation of an alternating ...-1, 3/1, 6-linked glucan, with periodic branch points, from sucrose substrate. Beyond the catalytic domain, this enzyme harbours seven additional C-terminal SH3-like repeats. We herein generated two truncated alternansucrases, possessing deletions of three and seven adjacent SH3 motifs, giving ..3SHALT and ..7SHALT. ..3SHALT and ..7SHALT exhibited kcat/Km for transglycosylation activity 2.3- and 1.5-fold lower than wild-type ALT (WTALT), while hydrolysis was detected only in the truncated ALTs, oligosaccharide patterns and polymer glycosidic linkage were similar to that of WTALT. The viscosities of ALT polymers increase by ..100-fold at 15% (w/v), with gel-like states formed at 12.5, 15.0, and 20.0% (w/v) produced by polymer from WTALT, ..3SHALT, and ..7SHALT, respectively. The average nanoparticle sizes of ..3SHALT and ..7SHALT polymers were 80...nm, compared to 90...nm from WTALT. I	2019	10	25	Carbohydr Polym	Carbohydrate polymers	Alternan; Alternansucrase; Leuconostoc citreum; SH3-like motif; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Hydrolysis; Leuconostoc; Particle Size; Sequence Deletion; Viscosity; src Homology Domains	Wangpaiboon	Karan
31124355	10.1021/acs.jafc.9b01822	Detailed Structural Characterization of Glucans Produced by Glucansucrases from Leuconostoc citreum TMW 2.1194.	The water kefir organism Leuconostoc citreum TMW 2.1194 forms highly branched dextrans with O3- and O4-bound side chains. To obtain detailed information on the enzymatic synthesis of these polymers, the four glucansucrases encoded by Leuconostoc citreum TMW 2.1194 were cloned, heterologously expressed, and used for polysaccharide production. Molecular and macromolecular structure of the synthesized glucans were analyzed by methylation analysis, two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy, oligosaccharide analysis after partial hydrolysis, and asymmetric flow field-flow fractionation. It was demonstrated that two glucansucrases form insoluble glucans with variously branched dextran sections and varying portions of consecutive, 1,3-linked glucose units. In contrast, the other two glucansucrases synthesized O3- (Lc6255) and O4-branched (Lc1785) soluble dextrans. Analysis, isolation, and characterization of enzymatically liberated oligosaccharides showed that monomeric and elongated side chains are a	2019	7	18	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	HPAEC-PAD; NMR spectroscopy; dextran; enzymatic fingerprinting; fermentation; mutan; oligosaccharides; purification; Bacterial Proteins; Carbohydrate Conformation; Dextrans; Glucans; Leuconostoc; Sucrase	M..nkel	Franziska
31121378	10.1016/j.colsurfb.2019.05.022	Spray-drying microencapsulation of nisin by complexation with exopolysaccharides produced by probiotic Bacillus tequilensis-GM and Leuconostoc citreum-BMS.	This work aims to encapsulate nisin by complexation with exopolysaccharides (EPS), produced by Bacillus tequilensis-GM and Leuconostoc citreum-BMS, namely EPS-GM and EPS-BMS, respectively, using spray-drying technique, and to evaluate the effect of this encapsulation on the structure of nisin. Results related to suspensions turbidity showed that EPS/nisin complexes were formed through electrostatic attractions. These interactions were confirmed by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analysis. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) micrographs of the spray-dried complexes revealed the presence of well-separated spherical microcapsules. Besides, results obtained by UV spectra showed that no significant changes occurred on EPS-GM/nisin microcapsules suggesting that this EPS may act as protective agent of nisin structure against spray-drying conditions.	2020	1	16	Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces	Colloids and surfaces. B, Biointerfaces	Exopolysaccharides; Microencapsulation; Nisin; Spray-drying; Bacillus; Desiccation; Leuconostoc; Nisin; Particle Size; Polysaccharides; Protective Agents; Static Electricity; Surface Properties	Abid	Yousra
31100643	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2019.05.003	Genetic and technological characterization of lactic acid bacteria isolated from tropically grown fruits and vegetables.	Phyllosphere microorganisms are common contaminants of fruit or vegetable containing foods. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize lactic acid bacteria isolated from fruits and vegetables from Reunion Island, regarding possible application in food. Among 77 isolates, a large diversity of species was observed, with isolates belonging to Lactobacillus plantarum (3 isolates), other species of Lactobacillus (3), Lactococcus lactis (13), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (25), Leuconostoc lactis (1), Leuconostoc mesenteroides (7), Leuconostoc citreum (14), Weissella cibaria (4), Weissella confusa (4), other species of Weissella (2) and Fructobacillus tropaeoli (1). Several of these species, although belonging to lactic acid bacteria, are poorly characterized, because of their low occurrence in dairy products. Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc and Weissella isolates were classified by (GTG)5 fingerprinting in 3, 6, 21 and 10 genetic groups, respectively, sugges	2019	6	13	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Diversity; Leuconostoc; Phenotype; Starter selection; Weissella; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Fruit; Lactobacillales; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Tropical Climate; Vegetables	Fessard	Amandine
31073899	10.1007/s12275-019-9048-0	Mixed starter of Lactococcus lactis and Leuconostoc citreum for extending kimchi shelf-life.	To develop a starter culture system for improving the shelf-life and quality of kimchi, we prepared a mixed starter composed of Lactococcus lactis and Leuconostoc citreum. Two strains, L. lactis WiKim0098 and Leu. citreum WiKim0096, showed high antimicrobial activity and mannitol productivity, respectively. These lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were introduced as a starter into kimchi following cultivation in foodgrade liquid medium. Two kimchi samples, with and without starter, were fermented for 12 days at 10..C. Compared to the control kimchi without starter, a lower initial pH and higher number of LAB were observed in kimchi with starter at 0 day. However, the starter in kimchi prolonged the period taken by kimchi to reach to pH 4.2 by approximately 1.5-fold compared to that in the control kimchi. To estimate the effect of the starter on the flavor of kimchi, metabolite changes were evaluated by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. In starter fermented kimchi, the levels of mannitol an	2019	6	24	J Microbiol	Journal of microbiology (Seoul, Korea)	Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc citreum; kimchi; shelf-life; starter; Amino Acids; Fermentation; Fermented Foods; Food Microbiology; Food Storage; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillales; Lactococcus lactis; Leuconostoc; Mannitol; Microbial Viability	Kim	Mi-Ju
30954033	10.4014/jmb.1902.02023	Effect of Bacteriophages on Viability and Growth of Co-cultivated <i>Weissella</i> and <i>Leuconostoc</i> in Kimchi Fermentation.	This study aimed to understand the survival and growth patterns of bacteriophage-sensitive Weissella and Leuconostoc strains involved in kimchi fermentation. Dongchimi kimchi was prepared, and Weissella and Leuconostoc were co-cultivated in the dongchimi broth. Weissella cibaria KCTC 3807 growth was accompanied by rapid lysis with an increase in the bacteriophage quantity. Leuconostoc citreum KCCM 12030 followed the same pattern. The bacteriophage-insensitive strains W. cibaria KCTC 3499 and Leuconostoc mesenteroides KCCM 11325 survived longer under low pH as their growth was not accompanied by bacteriophages. The bacteriophage lysate of W. cibaria KCTC 3807 accelerated and promoted the growth of Leuconostoc. Overall, our results show that bacteriophages might affect the viability and population dynamics of lactic acid bacteria during kimchi fermentation.	2019	6	17	J Microbiol Biotechnol	Journal of microbiology and biotechnology	Leuconostoc; Weissella; bacteriophage; kimchi; population dynamics; Bacteriophages; Coculture Techniques; Fermentation; Fermented Foods; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillales; Leuconostoc; Microbial Viability; Time Factors; Weissella	Kong	Se-Jin
30781845	10.3390/foods8020070	Use of a Selected <i>Leuconostoc Citreum</i> Strain as a Starter for Making a "Yeast-Free" Bread.	The aim of this study was the characterization and selection of bacterial strains suitable for the production of a "yeast-free" bread. The strains Leuconostoc citreum C2.27 and Weissella confusa C5.7 were selected for their leavening and acidification capabilities and individually used as starters in bread-making tests. Liquid type-II sourdoughs, singly inoculated with the two selected strains, were characterized and employed for bread-making, through the set-up of a biotechnological protocol without the use of baker's yeast as a leavening agent. Aiming to verify the ability of the selected strains to dominate the fermentation process, bacteria and yeasts were isolated from liquid sourdoughs and doughs, genetically characterized and identified. Both the selected strains were suitable for the production of bread, even if L. citreum C2.27 showed the highest leavening capacity and was able to dominate the dough microbiota. The effects of different salt concentrations 	2020	9	29	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	Leuconostoc citreum; Weissella confusa; liquid sourdough; selected starter; ...yeast-free... bread	De Bellis	Palmira
30663071	10.1111/lam.13118	Plasmid curing resulted in improved heterologous gene expression in Leuconostoc citreum EFEL2700.	Leuconostoc citreum EFEL2700 isolated from kimchi was used as a host strain for genetic and metabolic engineering in our previous studies, but the cells of EFEL2700 contained a cryptic plasmid (P-cells). Thus, we created plasmid-free cells (F-cells) using the CRISPR/Cas9 system. In this study, we compared the microbial characteristics of P- and F-cells in terms of growth rate, biochemical properties, transformation efficiency, plasmid copy number and protein expression level. When the growth rate was measured in MRS medium at 30..C, no significant difference (P..&gt;..0..01) was observed. Biochemical properties, tested using an API 50CHL kit, showed no differences. Transformation efficiency of F-cells, measured using pCB4270, was higher (1..3......10<sup>4</sup> CFU per ..g DNA) than that of P-cells (5..0......10<sup>3</sup> CFU per ..g DNA). Copy number after transformation of pCBBgl was 4-fold higher for F-cells than for P-cells. When ..-glucosidase activity was assayed in the above 	2019	5	22	Lett Appl Microbiol	Letters in applied microbiology	Leuconostoc citreum EFEL2701; gene expression host; heterologous gene expression; lactic acid bacteria; plasmid curing; CRISPR-Cas Systems; Gene Expression; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Metabolic Engineering; Plasmids; beta-Glucosidase	Jang	Y-J
29362990	10.1007/s12602-018-9385-z	Characterization and Antibacterial Activity Against Helicobacter pylori of Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from Thai Fermented Rice Noodle.	A total of 32 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were isolated from Khanom-jeen, a Thai traditional fermented rice noodle. They belonged to the genus Leuconostoc (Ln), Lactobacillus (Lb), Enterococcus (E), Lactococcus (Lc), and Weissella (W), based on their phenotypic characteristics and 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses. The strains were identified as Ln. pseudomesenteroides (group 1, two strains), Ln. citreum (group 2, three strains), Ln. lactis (group 3, three strains), Lb. paracasei subsp. tolerans (group 4, two strains), E. faecium (group 5, three strains), Lc. lactis subsp. lactis (group 6, one strain), W. confusa (group 7, six strains), Lb. fermentum (group 8, seven strains), and Lb. plantarum subsp. plantarum and Lb. pentosus (group 9, five strains). Fifteen strains exhibited the inhibitory activity against Helicobacter pylori clinical isolates by spot-on-lawn method. Lb. fermentum P43-01 resisted to bile acids showed the broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity against H. pylori strains	2019	8	26	Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins	Probiotics and antimicrobial proteins	Antimicrobial activity; Bacteriocins; Fermented rice noodle; Helicobacter pylori; Lactic acid bacteria; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Helicobacter pylori; Lactobacillales; Oryza; Probiotics; Thailand	Techo	Sujitra
33483044	10.1016/j.carbpol.2020.117523	Rheological and emulsifying properties of an exopolysaccharide produced by potential probiotic Leuconostoc citreum-BMS strain.	EPS-BMS, is to our knowledge, the first high molecular weight exopolysaccharide from potential probiotic Leuconostoc citreum-BMS strain that consists on a mixture of ..-(1,6)-dextran branched at the third position and ..-(2,6)-levan. This sample exhibited interesting rheological and emulsifying properties under different conditions. Steady shear experiments proved that EPS-BMS had a pseudoplastic behavior without thixotropic properties. Interestingly, pseudoplasticity was maintained even under stress conditions of temperature, pH and salts, which could provide some sensory properties for food products such as mouth feel. Dynamic oscillatory measurements reflected a liquid-like behavior of the sample regardless of the studied EPS concentration, pH, temperature and ionic force. Results related to the emulsifying as well as interfacial properties showed that EPS-BMS had great potential to be applied as emulsifier and/or emulsion stabilizer in both neutral and acidic conditions. Based on t	2021	4	6	Carbohydr Polym	Carbohydrate polymers	Emulsifying properties; Exopolysaccharide; Food applications; Leuconostoc citreum-BMS; Rheological properties; Cooking; Dextrans; Emulsifying Agents; Fructans; Humans; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; Probiotics; Rheology; Salts; Taste Perception; Temperature	Abid	Yousra
33278464	10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.12.001	Screening of endogenous strong promoters of Leuconostoc citreum EFEL2700 based on transcriptome analysis and its application for food-grade production of ..-galactosidase.	Leuconostoc citreum is a heterofermentative lactic acid bacterium frequently found in the various fermented foods. L. citreum EFEL2700 isolated from Korean kimchi has been used as a host strain for biotechnological applications. For the use as a food-grade host to over-produce food ingredients or enzymes, strong endogenous promoters guarantying high expression levels of target genes are necessary. In this study, transcriptomic analysis of L. citreum EFEL2700 was performed using RNA-Seq and three promoters of the most highly expressed genes were selected: glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD), and phosphoketolase (PPK). Thereafter, they were used as promoters to express ..-galactosidase gene from Lactobacillus plantarum WCFS1 in L. citreum EFEL2700 and the levels were compared with the control promoter P710 from L. mesenteroides ATCC 8293. As results, the ..-galactosidase activities of the transformants were 2.73, 0.27, 37.43, and 9.25 	2021	9	24	J Biotechnol	Journal of biotechnology	Endogenous promoter screening; Leuconostoc citreum; Transcriptome analysis; ..-galactosidase expression; Galactosidases; Gene Expression Profiling; Lactobacillus plantarum; Leuconostoc	Kim	Seo Yeon
33233728	10.3390/foods9111706	<i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> TR116 as a Microbial Cell Factory to Functionalise High-Protein Faba Bean Ingredients for Bakery Applications.	Grain legumes, such as faba beans, have been investigated as promising ingredients to enhance the nutritional value of wheat bread. However, a detrimental effect on technological bread quality was often reported. Furthermore, considerable amounts of antinutritional compounds present in faba beans are a subject of concern. Sourdough-like fermentation can positively affect baking performance and nutritional attributes of faba bean flours. The multifunctional lactic acid bacteria strain Leuconostoc citreum TR116 was employed to ferment two faba bean flours with different protein contents (dehulled flour (DF); high-protein flour (PR)). The strain's fermentation profile (growth, acidification, carbohydrate metabolism and antifungal phenolic acids) was monitored in both substrates. The fermentates were applied in regular wheat bread by replacing 15% of wheat flour. Water absorption, gluten aggregation behaviour, bread quality characteristics and in vitro starch digestibility were comp	2020	12	1	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	GlutoPeak; baking properties; bread quality; faba bean; lactic acid fermentation; legumes; phenolic acids; plant-protein	Hoehnel	Andrea
33158141	10.3390/foods9111603	Microbial Ecology of Greek Wheat Sourdoughs, Identified by a Culture-Dependent and a Culture-Independent Approach.	The aim of the present study was to assess the microecosystem of 13 homemade spontaneously fermented wheat sourdoughs from different regions of Greece, through the combined use of culture-dependent (classical approach; clustering by Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RAPD-PCR) and identification by PCR species-specific for Lactiplantibacillus plantarum, and sequencing of the 16S-rRNA and 26S-rRNA gene, for Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) and yeasts, respectively) and independent approaches [DNA- and RNA-based PCR-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE)]. The pH and Total Titratable Acidity (TTA) values ranged from 3.64-5.05 and from 0.50-1.59% lactic acid, respectively. Yeast and lactic acid bacteria populations ranged within 4.60-6.32 and 6.28-9.20 log CFU/g, respectively. The yeast: LAB ratio varied from 1:23-1:10,000. A total of 207 bacterial and 195 yeast isolates were obtained and a culture-dependent assessment of their taxonomic affiliation revea	2020	11	28	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	Greek wheat sourdough; PCR-DGGE; RAPD-PCR; identification; lactic acid bacteria; yeasts	Syrokou	Maria K
32934253	10.1038/s41598-020-71864-4	Genomic profiling of bacterial and fungal communities and their predictive functionality during pulque fermentation by whole-genome shotgun sequencing.	Pulque is a culturally important 4,000-year-old traditional Mexican fermented drink. Pulque is produced by adding fresh aguamiel (agave sap) to mature pulque, resulting in a mixture of microbial communities and chemical compositions. We performed shotgun metagenomic sequencing of five stages of pulque fermentation to characterize organismal and functional diversity. We identified 6 genera (Acinetobacter, Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Leuconostoc, Saccharomyces and Zymomonas) and 10 species (Acinetobacter boissieri, Acinetobacter nectaris, Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, Lactococcus lactis, Lactococcus piscium, Lactococcus plantarum, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc gelidum, Zymomonas mobilis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae) that were present ......1% in at least one stage of pulque fermentation. The abundance of genera and species changed during fermentation and was associated with a decrease in sucrose and increases in ethanol and lactic acid, suggesting that resource competition shapes or	2020	12	15	Sci Rep	Scientific reports	Agave; Alcoholic Beverages; Bacteria; DNA, Bacterial; DNA, Fungal; Fermentation; Fungi; Metagenome	Chac..n-Vargas	Katherine
32911696	10.3390/foods9091258	Persistence and Effect of a Multistrain Starter Culture on Antioxidant and Rheological Properties of Novel Wheat Sourdoughs and Bread.	Food consumers make decisions primarily on the basis of a product's nutritional, functional, and sensorial aspects. In this context, this study evaluated the persistence in sourdough of a multistrain starter culture from laboratory to bakery plant production and the effect of the starter on antioxidant and rheological properties of sourdoughs and derived bread. Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis B450, Leuconostoc citreum B435, and Candida milleri L999 were used as a multispecies starter culture to produce a sourdough subsequently used to modify two traditional sourdoughs to make novel bread with improved health and rheological properties. Both these novel bakery sourdoughs showed the persistence of L. sanfranciscensis B450 and C. milleri L999, and showed a significantly different lactic acid bacteria (LAB) concentration from the traditional sourdoughs. The novel sourdough PF7 M had a higher phenolic content (170% increase) and DPPH (8% increase) than the 	2020	10	20	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	DPPH; Texture Profile Analysis; bread; lactic acid bacteria; phenolics; sourdough; starter; yeasts	Sidari	Rossana
32764465	10.3390/ijms21165614	Development of CRISPR Interference (CRISPRi) Platform for Metabolic Engineering of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> and Its Application for Engineering Riboflavin Biosynthesis.	Leuconostoccitreum, a hetero-fermentative type of lactic acid bacteria, is a crucial probiotic candidate because of its ability to promote human health. However, inefficient gene manipulation tools limit its utilization in bioindustries. We report, for the first time, the development of a CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) interference (CRISPRi) system for engineering L. citreum. For reliable expression, the expression system of synthetic single guide RNA (sgRNA) and the deactivated Cas9 of Streptococcus pyogenes (SpdCas9) were constructed in a bicistronic design (BCD) platform using a high-copy-number plasmid. The expression of SpdCas9 and sgRNA was optimized by examining the combination of two synthetic promoters and Shine-Dalgarno sequences; the strong expression of sgRNA and the weak expression of SpdCas9 exhibited the most significant downregulation (20-fold decrease) of the target gene (sfGFP), without cell growth retard	2021	2	17	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	CRISPRi; Leuconostoc citreum; lactic acid bacteria; riboflavin; synthetic biology; CRISPR-Cas Systems; Humans; Lactic Acid; Leuconostoc; Metabolic Engineering; Plasmids; Probiotics; RNA, Guide; Riboflavin; Streptococcus pyogenes	Son	Jaewoo
32702068	10.1371/journal.pone.0236190	Selection of cereal-sourced lactic acid bacteria as candidate starters for the baking industry.	The quality of sourdough bread mainly depends on metabolic activities of lactic acid bacteria (LAB). The exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced by LAB affect positively the technological and nutritional properties of the bread, while phytases improve the bioavailability of the minerals by reducing its phytate content. In the present study, a pool of 152 cereal-sourced LAB were screened for production of phytases and EPS for potential use as sourdough starter cultures for the baking industry. There was large heterogeneity in the phytase activity observed among the screened isolates, with 95% showing the ability to degrade sodium phytate on plates containing Sourdough Simulation Medium (SSM). The isolates Lactobacillus brevis LD65 and Lactobacillus plantarum PB241 showed the highest enzymatic activity, while the isolates ascribed to Weissella confusa were characterized by low or no phytase activity. Only 18% of the screened LAB produced EPS, which were distinguished as ropy or mucoid phenotyp	2020	9	22	PLoS One	PloS one	6-Phytase; Bread; Edible Grain; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Genes, Bacterial; Hordeum; Industry; Lactobacillales; Molecular Weight; Monosaccharides; Polysaccharides, Bacterial; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Species Specificity; beta-Glucans	Milanovi..	Vesna
32539975	10.1016/j.fm.2020.103505	The potential correlation between bacterial diversity and the characteristic volatile flavour of traditional dry sausages from Northeast China.	The objective of this study was to explore the correlation between bacterial communities and volatile compounds in traditional dry sausages from different regions in Northeast China. The bacterial community structure of dry sausages from five different regions as determined by high-throughput sequencing technology demonstrated that Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were the predominant phyla; Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus, Leuconostoc, Lactococcus and Weissella were the predominant genera; and Staphylococcus xylosus, Lactobacillus sakei, Weissella hellenica, Leuconostoc citreum, Lactococcus raffinolactis and Lactobacillus plantarum were the predominant species. Meanwhile, a total of 120 volatile compounds were detected in sausages from five different regions and mainly included alcohols, acids, aldehydes, ketones, esters and terpenes. Furthermore, the potential correlations between the core bacteria and major volatile compounds (64) were explored based on Spearman's correlation analysis. P	2021	1	4	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Bacterial community; HS-SPME-GC-MS; High-throughput sequencing; Traditional dry sausages; Volatile compounds; Animals; Bacteria; Biodiversity; China; Fermented Foods; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Meat Products; Microbiota; Swine; Volatile Organic Compounds; Water	Hu	Yingying
32496663	10.1002/mbo3.1065	Phylogenetic analysis of Leuconostoc and Lactobacillus species isolated from sugarcane processing streams.	High levels of gums such as dextran, produced by Leuconostoc and Lactobacillus spp., have a severe impact on factory throughput and sugar quality. This study aimed to determine the phylogenetic relationships between gum-producing Leuconostoc and Lactobacillus bacteria which were isolated from various locations in a sugarcane processing factory at times when low- and high-dextran raw sugar, respectively, were produced. Phylogenetic analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences grouped 81 isolates with the type strains of Leuconostoc mesenteroides (subspp. mesenteroides, dextranicum, and cremoris), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, Leuconostoc lactis, and Leuconostoc citreum, respectively. Forty-three isolates clustered with the type strain of Lactobacillus fermentum. The phylogenetic relatedness of the isolates was determined by sequencing and analysis of the housekeeping genes rpoA and dnaA for Leuconostoc spp. and the pheS and tuf genes for the Lactobacillus spp. The rpoA gene proved discriminat	2021	6	22	Microbiologyopen	MicrobiologyOpen	Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; dextran; phylogenetic analysis; sugarcane; Bacterial Proteins; DNA, Bacterial; DNA-Binding Proteins; DNA-Directed RNA Polymerases; Dextrans; Gene Amplification; Genes, Essential; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Phylogeny; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Saccharum; Sequence Analysis, DNA	Nel	Sanet
32437608	10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01465	Development of Slowly Digestible Starch Derived ..-Glucans with 4,6-..-Glucanotransferase and Branching Sucrase Enzymes.	Previously, we have identified and characterized 4,6-..-glucanotransferase enzymes of the glycosyl hydrolase (GH) family 70 (GH70) that cleave (..1...4)-linkages in amylose and introduce (..1...6)-linkages in linear chains. The 4,6-..-glucanotransferase of Lactobacillus reuteri 121, for instance, converts amylose into an isomalto/malto-polysaccharide (IMMP) with 90% (..1...6)-linkages. Over the years, also, branching sucrase enzymes belonging to GH70 have been characterized. These enzymes use sucrose as a donor substrate to glucosylate dextran as an acceptor substrate, introducing single -(1...2,6)-..-d-Glcp-(1...6)- (Leuconostoc citreum enzyme) or -(1...3,6)-..-d-Glcp-(1...6)-branches (Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc fallax, Lactobacillus kunkeei enzymes). In this work, we observed that the catalytic domain 2 of the L...kunkeei branching sucrase used not only dextran but also IMMP as the acceptor substrate, introducing -(1...3,6	2021	1	13	J Agric Food Chem	Journal of agricultural and food chemistry	branching sucrase; dextran; digestibility; isomalto/malto-polysaccharide; ..-glucanotransferase; Bacterial Proteins; Biocatalysis; Catalytic Domain; Glucans; Glycogen Debranching Enzyme System; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Starch; Sucrase; Sucrose	Te Poele	E M
32409580	10.1074/jbc.RA120.013028	A specific oligosaccharide-binding site in the alternansucrase catalytic domain mediates alternan elongation.	Microbial ..-glucans produced by GH70 (glycoside hydrolase family 70) glucansucrases are gaining importance because of the mild conditions for their synthesis from sucrose, their biodegradability, and their current and anticipated applications that largely depend on their molar mass. Focusing on the alternansucrase (ASR) from Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1355, a well-known glucansucrase catalyzing the synthesis of both high- and low-molar-mass alternans, we searched for structural traits in ASR that could be involved in the control of alternan elongation. The resolution of five crystal structures of a truncated ASR version (ASR..2) in complex with different gluco-oligosaccharides pinpointed key residues in binding sites located in the A and V domains of ASR. Biochemical characterization of three single mutants and three double mutants targeting the sugar-binding pockets identified in domain V revealed an involvement of this domain in alternan binding and elongation. More strikingl	2021	1	13	J Biol Chem	The Journal of biological chemistry	GH70; alternan; alternansucrase; biosourced; biotechnology; carbohydrate structure; dextran; enzyme catalysis; enzyme mechanism; glucansucrase; green chemistry; polymerase; polysaccharide; processivity; sugar-binding pockets; surface-binding site; Bacterial Proteins; Binding Sites; Crystallography, X-Ray; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Leuconostoc; Protein Domains	Molina	Manon
32336377	10.1016/j.fm.2020.103489	Synergistic antimicrobial activity of oregano and thyme thymol essential oils against Leuconostoc citreum in a laboratory medium and tomato juice.	This study was done to identify combinations of essential oils (EOs) that elicit synergistic antimicrobial effects against Leuconostoc citreum, a spoilage bacterium in vegetable and fruit juices. Twenty-four EOs were tested for antimicrobial activity against L. citreum using an agar well diffusion assay. Ten EOs showed relatively strong antimicrobial activity. Among those, cinnamon bark, oregano, and thyme thymol EOs showed the strongest activity (minimal inhibitory concentration..=..1.25....L/mL). It was confirmed that a combination of oregano and thyme thymol EOs had a synergistic antimicrobial activity (fractional inhibitory concentration index..=..0.3750) using a checkerboard assay. This combination also had a synergistic antimicrobial activity against L. citreum in tomato juice. An initial population of L. citreum in tomato juice (5.3 log CFU/mL) increased to.......8.6 log CFU/mL within 48..h..at 15....C and 24..h..at 25....C. Populations reached 6.8-7.2 log CFU/mL in tomato juice	2020	11	9	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Leuconostoc citreum; Oregano essential oil; Organic food; Synergistic antimicrobial activity; Thyme thymol essential oil; Tomato juice; Anti-Infective Agents; Cinnamomum zeylanicum; Culture Media; Drug Synergism; Food Microbiology; Food Preservation; Fruit and Vegetable Juices; Leuconostoc; Lycopersicon esculentum; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Oils, Volatile; Origanum; Plant Oils; Thymol; Thymus Plant	Lee	Sohyun
32336362	10.1016/j.fm.2020.103491	Selection of non-Lactobacillus strains to be used as starters for sourdough fermentation.	The suitability of forty-one non-Lactobacillus strains to be used as selected starters for sourdough fermentation was evaluated. According to the data collected, Pediococcus pentosaceus OA1 and S3N3 and Leuconostoc citreum PRO17 were selected based on the optimal acidification and growth performances and the intense proteolytic activity (increase of TFFA up to 80%) on whole wheat flour doughs. A relevant degradation of phytic acid (up to 58%) and the increase of phenols content and scavenging activity (4- and 2-folds, respectively) were also observed. The technological performances were compared to two representative Lactobacillus strains (Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis). The investigation of the robustness of the selected strains during the propagation (back-slopping procedure) showed their long-term dominance only when singly-inoculated; while Leuc. citreum PRO17 dominated the fermentation when the strains were co-inoculated. The sourdoughs obtained by the	2020	11	9	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Lactic acid bacteria; Leuconostoc; Non-Lactobacillus strains; Pediococcus; Sourdough; Starter selection; Bacteria; Bread; Fermentation; Flour; Food Microbiology; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactic Acid; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Pediococcus pentosaceus; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Triticum	Montemurro	Marco
32336355	10.1016/j.fm.2020.103464	Application of mannitol producing Leuconostoc citreum TR116 to reduce sugar content of barley, oat and wheat malt-based worts.	Achieving a high monosaccharide composition in malt wort is instrumental to achieve successful lactic acid bacteria fermentation of malt based beverages. The conversion of monosaccharides to alternative metabolites such as the sweet polyol, mannitol with heterofermentative strains presents a novel approach for sugar reduction and to compensate for the loss of sweetness. This work outlines the application of an adopted mashing regimen with the addition of exogenous enzymes to produce wort with high fructose content which can be applied to different malted grain types with consistently efficacious monosaccharide production for bacterial fermentation. The so produced worts are then fermented with Leuconostoc citreum TR116 a mannitol hyper-producer. Malted barley, oat and wheat were mashed to stimulate protein degradation and release of free amino acids along with the enzymatic conversion of starch to fermentable sugars. Amyloglucosidase and glucose isomerase treatment converted di- and ol	2020	11	9	Food Microbiol	Food microbiology	Amyloglucosidase; Glucose isomerase; Heterofermentative; Mannitol; Sugar reduction; Avena; Bioreactors; Edible Grain; Fermentation; Fermented Foods; Fructose; Hordeum; Lactobacillales; Leuconostoc; Mannitol; Sugars; Triticum	Rice	Tom
32246347	10.1007/s10529-020-02881-6	Purification and biochemical characterization of a novel glucansucrase from Leuconostoc citreum B-2.	Although the extracellular polysaccharides have been analyzed in the previous period, the biochemical, enzymological characters and stimulation and inhibition effect on glucansucrase are not fully understood. After three steps purification, salting out, DEAE-Sepharose and Sephadex G-75, the final specific activity was 264.84..U/mg protein with 4.31-fold. The SDS-PAGE analysis of fraction gave a single band 170.35..kDa in the stained gel. The active band was analyzed with LC-MS/MS to identify glucansucrase. The highest coverage rate of dextransucrase from Leu. citreum (ACY92456.2) was 55.60%, the results were speculated that the glucansucrase secreted from Leu. citreum B-2 may be a novel glucansucrase. The purified enzyme was optimally active at 20-30....C and pH 6.0-8.0. Metal ions K<sup>+</sup>, Na<sup>+</sup>, Ca<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>2+</sup>, Mg<sup>2+</sup>, and Cr<sup>+</sup> had an apparent stimulating effect on enzyme activity, especially in divalent ions Ca<sup>2+</sup> and Mn<	2021	2	8	Biotechnol Lett	Biotechnology letters	Characterization; Glucansucrase; Leuconostoc citreum; Purification; Bacterial Proteins; Enzyme Stability; Glycosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Sodium Chloride; Urea	Zhao	Bo
32183117	10.3390/foods9030337	Isolation of Exopolysaccharide-Producing Yeast and Lactic Acid Bacteria from Quinoa (<i>Chenopodium Quinoa)</i> Sourdough Fermentation.	Quinoa, a nutritional grain, can be used as an ingredient in gluten-free sourdoughs. This study characterizes quinoa flour spontaneous fermentation with emphasis in the isolation of exopolysaccharide (EPS) producer bacteria. Real, red and black grains were studied. Dough yield, microbiota composition and fermentation biochemistry were determined for a total of 36 quinoa flour fermentations. The fermentation biochemistry was monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis, pH measurement and titratable acidity. Changes in the microbiota were monitored by plating on deMann Rogosa and Sharp 5 agar (MRS5) and yeast and mold agar (YMA) plates and with metagenetic analysis. The ability to produce exopolysaccharides was screened in selected lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolates. Production of organic acids in the spontaneous fermentation dropped the pH to 4.0 .. 0.3. The community of presumptive LAB reached 8.37 .. 0.01 log colony forming units (CFU)/mL by day 8 of back-slop	2020	9	28	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	exopolysaccharides; fermentation; lactic acid bacteria; pseudocereals; quinoa	Franco	Wendy
32097735	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.02.247	Characterisation of insoluble ..-1,3-/..-1,6 mixed linkage glucan produced in addition to soluble ..-1,6-linked dextran by glucansucrase (DEX-N) from Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1.	Glucansucrases catalyse the formation of glucans from sucrose. The glucansucrase-encoding gene from Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1, dex-N, was successfully cloned and expressed in E. coli BL21 Star (DE3). DEX-N produces 2 types of glucans: soluble (S-dextran) and insoluble (I-glucan) glucans. The S-dextran was determined to be ca. 10..kDa in size and contained &gt;90% ..-1,6 linkages; along with its water solubility, this is similar to commercial dextran. On the other hand, I-glucan was water-insoluble, harbouring a block-wise pattern of ..-1,3 and ..-1,6 linkages in its structure. Notably, the FTIR and powder X-ray diffraction pattern of I-glucan exhibited a combination of features found in ..-1,6-linked dextran and ..-1,3-linked mutan. Although both I-glucan and mutan are insoluble glucans, their physical characteristics are notably dissimilar.	2021	2	18	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Block-wise glucan structure; Glucan polymers; Glucansucrase; Glucosyltransferase-SI; Leuconostoc citreum; Bacterial Proteins; Cloning, Molecular; Dextrans; Escherichia coli; Glucans; Glycosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ions; Leuconostoc; Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy; Metals; Methylation; Molecular Weight; Solubility; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Streptococcus mutans; Temperature; Viscosity; X-Ray Diffraction	Wangpaiboon	Karan
32087410	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108546	Isolation, characterisation and exploitation of lactic acid bacteria capable of efficient conversion of sugars to mannitol.	The demand for sugar reduction in products across the food and beverage industries has evoked the development of novel processes including the application of fermentation with lactic acid bacteria. Heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are diverse in their ability to utilise fermentable sugars and can also convert fructose into the sweet tasting polyol, mannitol. The sourdough microbiota has long been recognised as an ecological niche for a range of homofermentative and heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria. A leading determinant in the biodiversity of sourdough microbial populations is the type of flour used. Ten non-wheat flours were used and back-slopped for 7..days resulting in the isolation of 52 mannitol producing isolates which spanned six heterofermentative species of the genera Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc and Weissella. Assessment of mannitol productivity in fructose concentrations up to 100..g/L found Leuconostoc citreum TR116, to have the best mannitol producing cha	2020	6	22	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Apple juice; Fructose; Heterofermentative; Low sugar; Sourdough; pH; Biodiversity; Bioreactors; Bread; Fermentation; Food Microbiology; Fructose; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Lactobacillales; Mannitol; Sugars	Rice	Tom
32031198	10.1039/c9fo02054c	Synthesis of potential prebiotic ..-glucooligosaccharides using microbial glucansucrase and their in vitro fecal fermentation.	Novel ..-glucooligosaccharides were synthesized by the acceptor reaction of Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 glucansucrase with maltose and sucrose. The impact of synthesis conditions, including the ratio of sucrose to maltose and the substrate concentration, on the formation of ..-glucooligosaccharides was evaluated. Under the optimized experimental conditions, the yield of a mixture of ..-glucooligosaccharides with DP 3-5 reached approximately 56.4% with a concentration of 170.7 mg mL-1. Each of these ..-glucooligosaccharides was purified, and the structures were assigned as follows: ..-D-Glcp-(1,6)-..-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP3), ..-D-Glcp-(1,3)-..-D-Glcp-(1,6)-..-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP4), and ..-D-Glcp-(1,6)-..-D-Glcp-(1,3)-..-D-Glcp-(1,6)-..-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP5), respectively. For these three structurally different oligosaccharides, the fermentation selectivity by fecal bacteria was determined in anaerobic batch culture. Fructooligosaccharide (FOS) was used as a positive prebiotic	2020	11	23	Food Funct	Food &amp; function	Bacterial Proteins; Bifidobacterium; Feces; Fermentation; Glycosyltransferases; Humans; Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; Maltose; Oligosaccharides; Prebiotics; Sucrose	Hu	Xiuting
35181108	10.1016/j.foodres.2021.110707	Metagenomics-based insights into the microbial community profiling and flavor development potentiality of baijiu Daqu and huangjiu wheat Qu.	Daqu and wheat Qu are saccharification and fermenting agents in Chinese huangjiu and baijiu production. This study aimed to investigate the difference between Daqu and wheat Qu in physicochemical indices, microbial communities, functional genes, and the metabolic network of key microbes responsible for flavor synthesis by whole-metagenome sequencing and metabolite analysis. Herein, physicochemical indices indicated that compared with wheat Qu, Daqu exhibited higher protease and cellulase activity and acidity, and lower glucoamylase and amylase enzyme activity. Metagenomic sequencing reveals that although Daqu and wheat Qu community composition have significant differences at species level, they have similar functional genes. Daqu were enriched in Pediococcus pentosaceus, Weissella paramesenteroides, Rasamsonia emersonii and Byssochlamys spectabilis (22.48% of the total abundance), while wheat Qu harbored greater abundances of Saccharopolyspora (54.78%, Saccharopolyspora rectivirgula, S	2022	4	7	Food Res Int	Food research international (Ottawa, Ont.)	Flavor; Metabolic pathway; Microbiota; Whole-metagenome sequencing; Amylases; Fermentation; Metabolic Networks and Pathways; Metagenomics; Microbiota	Zhang	Jing
34798193	10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.11.070	Biosorption of Pb<sup>2+</sup> and Zn<sup>2+</sup> by Ca-alginate immobilized and free extracellular polysaccharides produced by Leuconostoc citreum B-2.	Heavy metal pollution seriously threatens human health and ecological environment. Due to high efficiency and excellent development prospect, adsorption technology has attracted worldwide attention. It is significant to develop renewable adsorbents with excellent adsorption performance. In this study, the Pb<sup>2+</sup> and Zn<sup>2+</sup> adsorption capacity of Ca-alginate immobilized and free (without immobilization) Leu. citreum B-2 extracellular polysaccharides (EPS) was investigated. Isotherm and kinetic models were used to evaluate the adsorption performance. The adsorbents were characterized by SEM, FT-IR and XPS spectroscopy. The maximum biosorption of Pb<sup>2+</sup> 269.54 and Zn<sup>2+</sup> 49.88..mg/g was achieved with immobilized EPS. Thermodynamic studies showed that the adsorption of Pb<sup>2+</sup> and Zn<sup>2+</sup> on EPS was a spontaneous and feasible process, and the adsorption properties of EPS were exothermic for lead and endothermic for zinc. All the adsorptio	2021	12	22	Int J Biol Macromol	International journal of biological macromolecules	Biosorption; Extracellular polysaccharides; Heavy metal; Adsorption; Alginates; Calcium; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Ion Exchange; Kinetics; Lead; Leuconostoc; Polysaccharides; Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared; Thermodynamics; Water Pollutants, Chemical; Zinc	Xu	Xinan
34661886	10.1007/s42770-021-00629-6	Biodiversity and succession of lactic microbiota involved in Brazilian buffalo mozzarella cheese production.	The biodiversity and succession of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) involved in the production and storage of Brazilian buffalo mozzarella cheese were evaluated. The isolates were characterized by Gram staining and catalase test, by the ability to grow at different conditions: temperatures, pH, concentrations of NaCl, and production of CO2 from glucose. The biodiversity and succession of 152 LAB isolated during cheese production were evaluated by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD-PCR), and Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP-PCR) techniques. Most of the strains grow well at 30....C and are tolerant to 6.5% of NaCl, and in general, the best pH for growing was 9.6. Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lacticaseibacillus casei, Limosilactobacillus fermentum, and Enterococcus sp. were prevalent and present in almost all steps of production. The LAB strains are typically found in the traditional Italian cheese, except the Leuconostoc citreum species. Six	2022	3	1	Braz J Microbiol	Brazilian journal of microbiology : [publication of the Brazilian Society for Microbiology]	Autochthonous bacteria; Cheese biodiversity; Lactic acid bacteria identification; Raw milk; Animals; Biodiversity; Buffaloes; Cheese; Food Microbiology; Microbiota; Milk; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique	Silva	Luana Faria
34574114	10.3390/foods10092004	Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from Fermented Doughs in Spain Produce Dextrans and Riboflavin.	Many lactic acid bacteria (LAB) produce metabolites with applications in the food industry, such as dextran-type exopolysaccharides (EPS) and riboflavin (vitamin B2). Here, 72 bacteria were isolated from sourdoughs made by Spanish bread-makers. In the presence of sucrose, colonies of 22 isolates showed a ropy phenotype, and NMR analysis of their EPS supported that 21 of them were dextran producers. These isolates were identified by their random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns and their rrs and pheS gene sequences as LAB belonging to four species (Weissella cibaria, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc falkenbergense and Leuconostoc mesenteroides). Six selected strains from the Leuconostoc (3) and Weissella (3) genera grew in the absence of riboflavin and synthesized vitamin B2. The EPS produced by these strains were characterized as dextrans by physicochemical analysis, and the L. citreum polymer	2021	10	1	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	dextrans; lactic acid bacteria; riboflavin; sourdoughs	Llamas-Arriba	Mar..a Goretti
34442711	10.3390/microorganisms9081633	Multiple Techno-Functional Characteristics of <i>Leuconostoc</i> and Their Potential in Sourdough Fermentations.	In this study, the potential of Leuconostoc as non-conventional sourdough starter cultures was investigated. A screening for antifungal activities of 99 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains revealed high suppression of bakery-relevant moulds in nine strains of Leuconostoc with activities against Penicillium sp., Aspergillus sp., and Cladosporium sp. Mannitol production was determined in 49 Leuconostoc strains with &gt;30 g/L mannitol in fructose (50 g/L)-enriched MRS. Further, exopolysaccharides (EPS) production was qualitatively determined on sucrose (40 g/L)-enriched MRS agar and revealed 59 EPS positive Leuconostoc strains that harboured dextransucrase genes, as confirmed by PCR. Four multifunctional Lc. citreum strains (DCM49, DCM65, MA079, and MA113) were finally applied in lab-scale sourdough fermentations (30 ..C, 24 h). Lc. citreum was confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS up to 9 log CFU/g and pH dropped to 4.0 and TTA increased	2021	8	30	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Leuconostoc; antifungal; exopolysaccharides; mannitol; non-conventional starter cultures; sourdough fermentations	M..ller	Denise C
34357067	10.3390/life11070694	Response of Controlled Cell Load Biofilms to Cold Atmospheric Plasma Jet: Evidence of Extracellular Matrix Contribution.	Study of the biocidal effect of a cold atmospheric-pressure plasma in ambient air on single-species bacterial biofilms with controlled cell density, characterized by different extracellular matrices. Two bacterial strains were chosen to present different Gram properties and contrasted extracellular matrices: Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15442 (Gram-negative), and Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1299 (Gram-positive). P. aeruginosa biofilm exhibits a complex matrix, rich in proteins while L. citreum presents the specificity to produce glucan-type exopolysaccharides when grown in the presence of sucrose. Plasma was applied on both surface-spread cells and 24-h grown biofilms with controlled cell loads over 5, 10, or 20 min. Surface-spread bacteria showed a time dependent response, with a maximal bacterial reduction of 2.5 log after 20 min of treatment. On the other hand, in our experimental conditions, no bactericidal effect could be observed when treating biofilms of P. aeruginosa and glucan-r	2021	8	9	Life (Basel)	Life (Basel, Switzerland)	ATR-FTIR; L. citreum; P. aeruginosa; bacterial survival; biofilm; extracellular polymeric substances; non-thermal plasma	Labadie	Maritxu
34247022	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2021.109327	Genomic analysis of Leuconostoc citreum TR116 with metabolic reconstruction and the effects of fructose on gene expression for mannitol production.	The species Leuconostoc citreum is often isolated from grain and vegetable fermentations such as sourdough, sauerkraut and kimchi. Lc. citreum has seen an increase in its use as a starter culture for various fermentations and food applications. The strain Lc. citreum TR116 has been applied previously in this laboratory aimed at sugar depletion through metabolism resulting in the reduction of fructose to mannitol, a polyol considered as a sweet carbohydrate. Besides reducing sugar, TR116 showed flavour modulating characteristics and contributes to the extension of microbial shelf life. In order to obtain a better understanding of this strain and to fully use its set of abilities, the genome of Lc. citreum TR116 was sequenced using the Illumina MiSeq, assembly with SPAdes and annotated by the Prokaryotic Genome Annotation Pipeline. Metabolic reconstruction was employed to elucidate carbohydrate, organic acid and amino acid metabolism in the strain. Of particular interest was the gene exp	2021	9	24	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Carbohydrate; Genome sequence; Lactic acid bacteria; Mannitol dehydrogenase; Metabolism; Sugar reduction; Fermentation; Fructose; Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial; Genome, Bacterial; Leuconostoc; Mannitol	Sahin	Aylin W
34070312	10.3390/foods10061189	Metagenetic Analysis for Microbial Characterization of <i>Focaccia</i> Doughs Obtained by Using Two Different Starters: Traditional Baker's Yeast and a Selected <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> Strain.	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) decisively influence the technological, nutritional, organoleptic and preservation properties of bakery products. Therefore, their use has long been considered an excellent strategy to improve the characteristics of those goods. The aim of this study was the evaluation of microbial diversity in different doughs used for the production of a typical Apulian flatbread, named focaccia. Leavening of the analyzed doughs was obtained with baker's yeast or by applying an innovative "yeast-free" protocol based on a liquid sourdough obtained by using Leuconostoc citreum strain C2.27 as a starter. The microbial populations of the doughs were studied by both a culture-dependent approach and metagenetic analyses. The flours used for dough preparation were also subjected to the same analyses. The metagenetic analyses were performed by sequencing the V5-V6 hypervariable regions of the 16S rRNA gene and the V9 hypervariable region of the 18S rRNA gene. The resu	2021	6	26	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	baker...s yeast; lactic acid bacteria; liquid sourdough; metagenetic analysis; microbiota; yeast-free dough	Ferrara	Massimo
34069676	10.3390/microorganisms9051093	Yeasts and Lactic Acid Bacteria for <i>Panettone</i> Production: An Assessment of Candidate Strains.	The recovery of yeasts and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) involved in sourdough fermentation is the first step in the selection of starters with suitable technological aptitude and capable of producing desired aromas and/or aromatic precursors. In this work, two sourdoughs samples (MA and MB) and the derived doughs (samples A and B) were collected from a bakery during artisanal Panettone manufacture. Yeasts and bacteria were isolated at different fermentation steps on selective agar media. A total of 77 isolates were obtained and characterized. Representative strains of yeasts and LAB were identified by sequencing the D1/D2 domain of the 26S rRNA and the 16S rRNA genes, respectively. Moreover, the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) produced in the collected samples were detected and correlated to the species found in the same samples. The results highlighted the occurrence of Kazachstania humilis in both samples A and B, while Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains were detected onl	2021	6	15	Microorganisms	Microorganisms	Panettone; sequencing; sourdoughs; starter culture; volatile organic compounds	De Vero	Luciana
34053531	10.1016/j.foodres.2021.110327	A new Leuconostoc citreum strain discovered in the traditional sweet potato sour liquid fermentation as a novel bioflocculant for highly efficient starch production.	Sour liquid fermentation is commonly used in the sedimentation process of traditional starch production, where bacteria play a critical role in starch flocculation. In this study, the dynamic changes of bacterial compositions during sweet potato sour liquid (SPSL) fermentation were profiled using the single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing, unveiling that Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis, and Lactobacillus plantarum were the dominant microorganisms in the process, and Leuconostoc citreum exhibited a strong positive correlation with starch flocculation rate (FR). In total, 75 lactic acid bacterial (LAB) strains were isolated from the SPSL, but only 7 of them caused starch flocculation. For the first time, Leuconostoc citreum strains were reported with excellent starch-flocculating abilities (up to 55.56% FR in 20..min), which might be attributed to their ability to connect starch granules through the cell surface to form large aggregation. Thi	2021	6	29	Food Res Int	Food research international (Ottawa, Ont.)	Bacteria compositions; Leuconostoc citreum; Sour liquid fermentation; Starch flocculation; Sweet potato starch production; Fermentation; Ipomoea batatas; Leuconostoc; Starch	Wang	Xuan
33927980	10.1007/s13205-021-02747-2	Research on the role of LuxS/AI-2 quorum sensing in biofilm of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> 37 based on complete genome sequencing.	Leuconostoc citreum, a type of food-grade probiotic bacteria, plays an important role in food fermentation and intestinal probiotics. Biofilms help bacteria survive under adverse conditions, and LuxS/AI-2-dependent quorum sensing (QS) plays an important role in the regulation of their biofilm-forming activities. L. citreum 37 was a biofilm-forming strain isolated from dairy products. The aim of this study was to analyze genes involved in the LuxS/AI-2 system based on genome sequencing and biofilm formation of L. citreum 37. Genome assembly yielded two contigs (one chromosome and one plasmid), and the complete genome contained 1,946,279 base pairs (bps) with a G...+...C content of 38.91%. The genome sequence analysis showed that there were several pathways such as the two-component system, QS, and seven other signal pathways, and 26 genes (including luxS, pfs, and 24 other genes) may participate in QS related to biofilm formation. All these results showed that the LuxS/AI-2 system is co	2022	4	22	3 Biotech	3 Biotech	Biofilm; Complete genome sequencing; Leuconostoc citreum; LuxS/AI-2; Quorum sensing	Yang	Qinglan
33921672	10.3390/foods10040894	FODMAP Fingerprinting of Bakery Products and Sourdoughs: Quantitative Assessment and Content Reduction through Fermentation.	Fermentable oligo-, di-, and monosaccharides and polyols (FODMAPs) are associated with digestive disorders and with diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome. In this study, we determined the FODMAP contents of bread, bakery products, and flour and assessed the effectiveness of sourdough fermentation for FODMAP reduction. The fermentation products were analyzed to determine the DP 2-7 and DP &gt;7 fructooligosaccharide (FOS) content of rye and wheat sourdoughs. FOSs were reduced by Acetobacter cerevisiae, Acetobacter okinawensis, Fructilactobacillus sanfranciscensis, and Leuconostoc citreum to levels below those in rye (-81%; -97%) and wheat (-90%; -76%) flours. The fermentation temperature influenced the sourdough acetic acid to lactic acid ratios (4:1 at 4 ..C; 1:1 at 10 ..C). The rye sourdough contained high levels of beneficial arabinose (28.92 g/kg) and mannitol (20.82 g/kg). Our study contributes in-depth knowledge of low-temperature sourdough fermenta	2021	5	18	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	FODMAPs; arabinose; charged aerosol detection; fructooligosaccharides	Pitsch	Johannes
33810084	10.3390/ijms22063229	Unravelling Regioselectivity of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> ABK-1 Alternansucrase by Acceptor Site Engineering.	Alternansucrase (ALT, EC 2.4.1.140) is a glucansucrase that can generate ..-(1,3/1,6)-linked glucan from sucrose. Previously, the crystal structure of the first alternansucrase from Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1355 was successfully elucidated; it showed that alternansucrase might have two acceptor subsites (W675 and W543) responsible for the formation of alternating linked glucan. This work aimed to investigate the primary acceptor subsite (W675) by saturated mutagenesis using Leuconostoc citreum ABK-1 alternansucrase (LcALT). The substitution of other residues led to loss of overall activity, and formation of an alternan polymer with a nanoglucan was maintained when W675 was replaced with other aromatic residues. Conversely, substitution by nonaromatic residues led to the synthesis of oligosaccharides. Mutations at W675 could potentially cause LcALT to lose control of the acceptor molecule binding via maltose-acceptor reaction-as demonstrated by results from	2021	4	30	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Leuconostoc citreum; acceptor reaction; alternansucrase; molecular dynamics simulation; Enzyme Activation; Glycosylation; Glycosyltransferases; Hydrolysis; Kinetics; Leuconostoc; Models, Molecular; Protein Binding; Protein Conformation; Protein Engineering; Structure-Activity Relationship; Substrate Specificity	Wangpaiboon	Karan
33653200	10.1080/09637486.2021.1892603	Reducing FODMAPs and improving bread quality using type II sourdough with selected starter cultures.	This study focussed on lactic acid bacteria (LAB) screening for sourdough type II elaboration and evaluating the effects of sourdough fermentation in bread making, focussing mainly on reducing FODMAPs. After a technological performance screening, six strains (Levilactobacillus brevis, Weissella minor, Lactiplantibacillus plantarum, Leuconostoc citreum, Limosilactobacillus fermentum, and Companilactobacillus farciminis) were selected for sourdough preparation. Total titratable acidity, pH, specific volume, and enumeration of microorganisms were carried out on sourdoughs, doughs, and breads. Breads were subjected to texture profile and colour analysis, moulds and yeast enumeration, and total fructans (main group of FODMAPs) quantification. Breads produced with sourdough showed a significant reduction of fructans, greater acidity, volume, and better performance during storage when compared to fermentation using only baker's yeast. Including specif	2021	11	24	Int J Food Sci Nutr	International journal of food sciences and nutrition	Lactic acid bacteria; fructans; irritable bowel syndrome; texture profile analysis; Bread; Dietary Carbohydrates; Fermentation; Fructans; Leuconostoc; Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Triticum; Weissella	Menezes	Leidiane Andreia Acordi
33590587	10.1111/jam.15042	Bacteriocin production by Leuconostoc citreum ST110LD isolated from organic farm soil, a promising biopreservative.	The objective of this study was to isolate a bacteriocin-producing strain and to characterize the expressed bacteriocin for the control of Listeria monocytogenes with aim of biopreservation application. Soil samples from a Korean organic farm were subjected to microbiological analysis for isolation of potential bacteriocinogenic LAB, based on a three-level approach, using L. monocytogenes ATCC 15313 as an indicator test micro-organism. From a total of 17 isolates with inhibitory potential, seven were confirmed to be bacteriocin producers. The selected isolates were differentiated based on their morphology, catalase reaction, sugar fermentation profile obtained by API50CHL and by RAPD-PCR generating two unique profiles. One of the isolates, ST110LD, a specific strong producer of anti-Listeria bacteriocins (12..800..AU..ml<sup>-1</sup> ) was identified as Leuconostoc citreum. The proteinaceous nature of the inhibitory compound produced by Leuc. citreum ST110LD was confirmed through treat	2021	10	12	J Appl Microbiol	Journal of applied microbiology	Leuconostoc citreum; Listeria monocytogenes; bacteriocins; biopreservation; organic farm soil; Bacteriocins; Farms; Fermented Foods; Food Contamination; Food Microbiology; Leuconostoc; Listeria monocytogenes; Organic Agriculture; Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Technique; Soil Microbiology	Woo	C
33541325	10.1186/s12896-021-00673-y	Levan from Leuconostoc citreum BD1707: production optimization and changes in molecular weight distribution during cultivation.	Levan is a well-known homopolymer of fructose composed predominantly of ..-(2, 6) fructofuranosyl linkages in the backbone with occasional ..-(2, 1) linkages in the branch chains with varied applications. However, high production cost due to low yield of microbial levan has become a bottleneck for its practical applications. Furthermore, factors affecting the molecular mass of the synthesized levan by Leuconostoc spp. during prolonged cultivation is not fully elucidated. The cultivation condition for Leuconostoc citreum BD1707 to synthesize levan was optimized by single-factor experiments and subsequently with response surface methodology (RSM). The average molecular weight (Mw) of levan synthesized by the strain L.citreum BD1707 under the optimized cultivation conditions was monitored by high-performance size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC). Finally, the enzyme with levan-degrading activity was determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The le	2021	11	8	BMC Biotechnol	BMC biotechnology	Distribution of molecular weight; Leuconostoc citreum BD1707; Levan; Levansucrase; Optimization; Fructans; Fructose; Glucose; Hexosyltransferases; Hydrogen-Ion Concentration; Leuconostoc; Lycopersicon esculentum; Molecular Weight; Sucrose; Temperature	Han	Jin
33505529	10.2903/j.efsa.2021.6367	Safety evaluation of the food enzyme alternansucrase from <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> strain NRRL B-30894.	The food enzyme alternansucrase (sucrose:1,6(1,3)-..-d-glucan 6(3)-..-d-glucosyltransferase, EC 2.4.1.140) is produced with a non-genetically modified Leuconostoc citreum strain NRRL B-30894 by Cargill Incorporated. As a consequence of the absence of antimicrobial resistance genes identified in its genome, the production strain meets the criteria to qualify for the Qualified Presumption of Safety (QPS) approach to safety assessment. As no other concerns arising from the microbial source or from the manufacturing process have been identified, the Panel..considers that toxicological tests are not needed for the assessment of this food enzyme. The alternansucrase food enzyme is intended to be used for the manufacture of ..-d-glucan oligosaccharides as a sweetening agent. The purification processes applied to syrups produced from sucrose with alternansucrase are expected to largely remove the food enzyme. Any residual TOS remaining in the final product would consist of non-hazardous	2021	1	30	EFSA J	EFSA journal. European Food Safety Authority	EC 2.4.1.140; Leuconostoc citreum; alternansucrase; food enzyme; non...genetically modified microorganism; sucrose:1,6(1,3)........d...glucan 6(3)........d...glucosyltransferase	Silano	Vittorio
36147676	10.1016/j.csbj.2022.08.032	Comparative genome analysis of four <i>Leuconostoc</i> strains with a focus on carbohydrate-active enzymes and oligosaccharide utilization pathways.	Leuconostoc is mostly found in food, plants, and dairy products. Due to their innate genomic features, such as the presence of carbohydrate-active enzymes, bacteriocins, and plasmids, Leuconostoc spp. have great biotechnological potential. In this study, four strains were isolated and identified as Leuconostoc mesenteroides SG315 (LA), L. citreum SG255 (LB), L. lactis CCK940 (LC), and L. lactis SBC001 (LD). Comparative analysis was performed using their draft genome sequences. Differences among the four strains were analyzed using the average nucleotide identity, dot plot, and multiple alignments of conserved genomic sequences. Functional profiling revealed 2134, 1917, 1751, and 1816 open reading frames; 2023, 1823, 1655, and 1699 protein-coding genes; 60, 57, 83, and 82 RNA-coding genes; and GC content of 37.5 %, 38.8 %, 43.3 %, and 43.2 %, in LA, LB, LC, and LD, respectively. The total number of genes encoding carbohydrate-active enzymes was 	2022	9	24	Comput Struct Biotechnol J	Computational and structural biotechnology journal	Carbohydrate-active enzymes; Comparative genomics; Leuconostoc citreum; Leuconostoc lactis; Leuconostoc mesenteroides; Oligosaccharide	Sharma	Anshul
36076965	10.3390/ijms23179568	Engineering of <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> for Efficient Bioconversion of Soy Isoflavone Glycosides to Their Aglycone Forms.	Soy isoflavones are phytochemicals that possess various beneficial physiological properties such as anti-aging, anti-tumor, and antioxidant properties. Since soy isoflavones exist in glycoside forms, their bioavailability requires initial hydrolysis of the sugar moieties bound to them to be efficiently absorbed through the gut epithelium. Instead of conventional chemical hydrolysis using acids or organic solvents, alternative strategies for enhancing the bioavailability of soy isoflavones using biological methods are gaining attention. Here, we engineered Leuconostoc citreum isolated from Korean kimchi for efficient bioconversion of soy isoflavone glycosides into their aglycone forms to enhance their bioavailability. We first constructed an expression module based on the isoflavone hydrolase (IH)-encoding gene of Bifidobacterium lactis, which mediates conversion of isoflavone glycosides to aglycone forms. Using a high copy number plasmid and bicistronic expression design,	2022	9	12	Int J Mol Sci	International journal of molecular sciences	Leuconostoc citreum; bicistronic design; bioconversion; lactic acid bacteria; soy isoflavone; Fermentation; Glycosides; Isoflavones; Leuconostoc; Soy Milk	Son	Jaewoo
35954049	10.3390/foods11152283	Structural Characterization, Rheological Properties and Protection of Oxidative Damage of an Exopolysaccharide from <i>Leuconostoc citreum</i> 1.2461 Fermented in Soybean Whey.	Soybean whey is a kind of agricultural by-product enriched with nutritional value but with low utilization. The extracellular polysaccharides secreted by lactic acid bacteria during the fermentation possess a variety of structural characteristics and beneficial properties. In this study, an exopolysaccharide (EPS) was isolated from Leuconostoc citreum 1.2461 after fermentation in optimized soybean whey-enriched 10% sucrose at 37 ..C for 24 h. The water-soluble EPS-1 was obtained by DEAE-52 anion exchange chromatography, and the structural characterization of EPS-1 was investigated. The EPS-1 was homogeneous with an average molecular weight of 4.712 .. 10<sup>6</sup> Da and consisted mainly of glucose. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrum and flourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrum indicated that the EPS-1 contained ...3)-..-D-Glcp-(1... and ...6)-..-D-Glcp-(1... residues. The rheological properties of EPS-1 under the conditions of changing shear rate, concentration, te	2022	8	15	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	Leuconostoc citreum 1.2461; exopolysaccharide (EPS) structural characterization; oxidative damage protection; rheological properties; soybean whey wastewater (SWW)	Li	Yingying
35885256	10.3390/foods11142013	Lentil-Based Yogurt Alternatives Fermented with Multifunctional Strains of Lactic Acid Bacteria-Techno-Functional, Microbiological, and Sensory Characteristics.	A milk-alternative produced from lentil protein isolate was fermented with three multifunctional strains of lactic acid bacteria, Leuconostoc citreum TR116, Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides MP070, and Lacticaseibacillus paracasei FST 6.1. As a control, a commercial starter culture containing Streptococcus thermophilus was used. The metabolic performance of these strains and the techno-functional properties of the resulting yogurt alternatives (YA) were studied. Microbial growth was evaluated by cell counts, acidification, and carbohydrate metabolization. The structure of the YA was investigated by textural and rheological analyses and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). Production of antifungal compounds, the influence of fermentation on the content of FODMAPs, and typical metabolites were analyzed, and a sensory analysis was performed. The results revealed an exponential microbial growth in the lentil base substrate supported by typical acidification, which 	2022	7	31	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	Lactobacillus; Leuconostoc; dairy alternative; fermentation; legumes; plant-based; pulses	Boeck	Theresa
35804730	10.3390/foods11131914	Anti-Spoilage Activity and Exopolysaccharides Production by Selected Lactic Acid Bacteria.	In this study, eight lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains, previously isolated from traditional and gluten-free sourdoughs, and selected for their potential in improving the sensory and rheological quality of bakery products, were screened against some common spoilage agents. The anti-mould activity was tested using strains of the species Fusarium graminearum, Aspergillus flavus, Penicillium paneum and Aspergillus niger. Regarding the antibacterial activity, it was assessed against four strains of the species Escherichia coli, Campylobacter jejuni, Salmonella typhimurium and Listeria monocytogenes. Furthermore, LAB strains were evaluated for their ability to produce exopolysaccharides, which are gaining considerable attention for their functional properties and applicability in different food industrial applications. A strain-specific behaviour against the moulds was observed. In particular, F. graminearum ITEM 5356 was compl	2022	7	16	Foods	Foods (Basel, Switzerland)	antibacterial activity; antimould activity; exopolysaccharides; food safety; sourdough; starter culture	Iosca	Giovanna
35186526	10.7759/cureus.21227	A Case of Successfully Treated Central Line-Associated Bloodstream Infection Due to Vancomycin-Resistant Leuconostoc Citreum in a Child With Biliary Atresia.	Infections caused by the Leuconostocspecies have been increasingly described in the literature. They are Gram-positive, catalase-negative cocci that are intrinsically resistant to glycopeptides, including vancomycin. Although rarely pathogenic in humans, they have been primarily found in patients with immunosuppression, and a history of prolonged antibiotics use. We report a rare case of central venous catheter (CVC) infection caused by..Leuconostoc citreum, which was successfully treated with salvaging of the CVC, aiming to highlight the potential risk factors and share the course of management of our patient.	2022	2	23	Cureus	Cureus	biliary atresia; central line-associated infections (clabsi); central venous catheter (cvc); leuconostoc citreum; vancomycin-resistant bacteria	Modaweb	Ali
35152182	10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2022.109563	MALDI-TOF MS profiling and exopolysaccharide production properties of lactic acid bacteria from Kunu-zaki - A cereal-based Nigerian fermented beverage.	MALDI-TOF MS is a technique for high-throughput characterization of foodborne microbiota, however, its application for studying African traditional fermented foods is limited. A total of 164 out of 220 lactic acid bacterial (LAB) isolates from Kunu-zaki were identified using MALDI-TOF MS, with 100% identity of representative strains compared to 16S rRNA gene sequencing. MALDI-TOF MS profiling combined with 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed a total of 15 LAB species in Kunu-zaki, where the most predominant species were Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (40.46%), Weissella confusa (27.27%), and Pediococcus pentosaceus (15.00%). Phenotypic screening of all isolates revealed strains of W. confusa (57), Lactiplantibacillus sp. (9), Companilactobacillus musae (1), Ligilactobacillus saerimneri (1) and Leuconostoc citreum (1) that are capable of producing dextran and/or fructan. Dextransucrase genes were detected in all EPS-producing strains by PCR. Weissella confusa YKDIA1 and YKDIA4 produced 11.	2022	3	2	Int J Food Microbiol	International journal of food microbiology	Cereal-based fermentation; Exopolysaccharide; Lactic acid bacteria; MALDI TOF mass spectrometry; Edible Grain; Fermentation; Fermented Beverages; Lactobacillales; Nigeria; RNA, Ribosomal, 16S; Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization	Ogunremi	Omotade Richard
35150334	10.1007/s00284-022-02761-4	Polyols Induce the Production of Antifungal Compounds by Lactobacillus plantarum.	Mycotoxins may be present in nuts, coffee, cereals, and grapes, among other products. Increasing concerns about human health and environmental protection have driven the application of biological control techniques that can inhibit fungal contaminants. In this study, the growth inhibition of the ochratoxigenic fungus Aspergillus carbonarius Ac 162 was evaluated using 5 lactic acid bacteria (LAB). The LAB studied were Lactobacillus plantarum MZ801739 (J), Lactobacillus plantarum MZ809351 (31) and Lactobacillus plantarum MZ809350 (34), isolated in the Ivory Coast, and Lactobacillus plantarum MN982928 (3) and Leuconostoc citreum MZ801735 (23), isolated in Mexico. J, 31, 34, 3 and 23 are the internal strain codes from our laboratory. LAB were cultivated in De Man, Rogosa and Sharpe (MRS) broth, and different polyols (glycerol, mannitol, sorbitol, and xylitol) were added to the culture broth to stimulate the production of antifungal compounds. The fungal inhibition studies were performed us	2022	2	15	Curr Microbiol	Current microbiology	Antifungal Agents; Humans; Lactobacillus plantarum; Mycotoxins; Polymers	Espinosa-Salgado	Ruben
