patent_number	patent_title	patent_abstract
10041102	Expression of mammalian proteins in Pseudomonas fluorescens	The invention is a process for improved production of a recombinant mammalian protein by expression in a Pseudomonad, particularly in a Pseudomonas fluorescens organism. The process improves production of mammalian proteins, particularly human or human-derived proteins, over known expression systems such as E. coli in comparable circumstances. Processes for improved production of isolated mammalian, particularly human, proteins are provided.
10201162	Pseudomonas species having weed suppressive activity and benign soil survival traits for annual grass weed management	In exemplary embodiments, the disclosure provides weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens strains effective for controlling one or more invasive grass weeds that are members selected from the group consisting of downy brome (cheatgrass, Bromus tectorum L.), medusahead (Taeniatherum caput medusae (L.) Nevski) and jointed goatgrass (Aegilops cylindrica L.). In exemplary embodiments, the weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens bacterial strain is a member selected from the group consisting of: Pseudomonas fluorescens strain ACK55, Pseudomonas fluorescens strain NKK78 and Pseudomonas fluorescens strain SMK69. In still other exemplary embodiments the disclosure provides methods for selecting weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens strains.
10807919	Biofertilizer to increase agricultural yield	This invention consists of a consortium of plant-growth promoting microorganisms including Pseudomonas stutzeri, Pseudomonas denitrificans, Pseudomonas resinovorans, Pseudomonas brassicacearum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Shimwellia blattae and Klebsiella oxytoca. The bacterial consortium along with a vehicle suitable for agricultural application, form a biofertilizer useful to enhance agricultural yield when applied to cultivation plants. The biofertilizer described present a long shelf life and preserve a high cell density along the time.
10982185	Desiccation resistant pseudomonad strains and treatment of agricultural maladies therewith	Novel strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens are disclosed. Several novel mutated strains of Pseudomonads are engineered by repetitive culturing of a parent strain under stressed conditions. Various enriched populations are screened and ranked based on relative performance indices including viable cell yield during growth, efficacy in suppression of dry rot disease, cell growth recovery after dry storage and resistance to switchgrass hydrolysate.
11098285	Virulent Pseudomonas fluorescens phage FPf1901, and phage FPf901 preparation and application thereof	The present invention provides a virulent Pseudomonas fluorescens (P. fluorescens) phage FPf1901, and a phage FPf1901 preparation and an application thereof, and relates to the technical field of phage. The virulent P. fluorescens phage FPf1901 has an accession number of CCTCC M2019447. The virulent phage FPf1901 has a titer of (1.4-3)×1010 PFU/mL. The virulent phage FPf1901 has an optimal multiplicity of infection (MOI) value of 0.0001. The virulent P. fluorescens phage FPf1901 provided by the present invention exhibits very high specificity and lytic ability to P. fluorescens, which can be used to control P. fluorescens, with strong lytic and scavenging effects on a host.
3977943	Antibiotics	Antibacterial substances, pseudomonic acid, an isomer thereof, and pseudomonic acid I, are isolated by growing Pseudomonas fluorescens under aerobic conditions, precipitating and removing unwanted barium salts, extracting the culture medium to isolate a mixture of the three acids and separating each acid therefrom.
4071536	Antibiotics	An active antibacterial substance from Pseudomonas fluorescens bacterium designated pseudomonic acid and as a coproduct a minor amount of a compound having an additional OH group designated as pseudomonic acid I. These two substances obtained are separated and purified. Alkali metal salts and methyl esters can be prepared. The antibacterial activity of pseudomonic acid appears to reside in the free acid from which results from in vivo hydrolysis of the methyl ester which is crystalline.
4205002	Antibacterial compounds	A compound of formula (II), named pseudomonic acid C or a salt or ester thereof: ##STR1## has antibacterial and anti-mycoplasma activity, and can be produced either by fermentation of Pseudomonas fluorescens, or by de-oxygenation of pseudomonic acid A, the compound having a epoxide in place of the double bond. The compounds are therefore useful in the treatment of human and veterinary bacterial and mycoplasma-induced infections.
4226880	Antibacterial compounds	A compound of formula (II), named pseudomonic acid C or a salt or ester thereof: ##STR1## has antibacterial and anti-mycoplasma activity, and can be produced either by fermentation of Pseudomonas fluorescens, or by de-oxygenation of pseudomonic acid A, the compound having an epoxide in place of the double bond. The compounds are therefore useful in the treatment of human and veterinary bacterial and mycoplasma-induced infections.
4228191	Microbiological decaffeination of aqueous liquids	Aqueous caffeine-containing liquids, such as coffee extracts, are decaffeinated by means of fermenting the liquid with Pseudomonad microorganisms of the type Pseudomonas putida, NRRL B-8051, Pseudomonas fluorescens, NRRL B-8052 and Pseudomonad fluorescens, NRRL B-8053 or by means of contacting the liquid with a caffeine metabolizing enzyme preparation isolated from Pseudomonad microorganisms of the aforementioned type.
4274954	Microbiological process for removing non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater	A process for degrading and removing anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater containing the same comprising treating wastewater containing the anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and like compounds with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens under aerobic conditions; and the novel microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas fluorescens.
4317885	Microbiological process for removing non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater and microorganism capable of same	A process for degrading and removing anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater containing the same comprising treating wastewater containing the anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and like compounds with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens under aerobic conditions; and the novel microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas fluorescens.
4332905	Process for preparing carbamyl derivatives of .alpha.-hydroxy acids and the corresponding .alpha.-hydroxy acids	This invention relates to a process for preparing carbamyl derivatives of .alpha.-hydroxy acids by the hydrolysis of 5-substituted 2,4-oxazolidinediones. The carbamyl derivatives can be further hydrolyzed to .alpha.-hydroxy acids. The invention also relates to a process for the enzymatic hydrolysis of racemic 5-substituted 2,4-oxazolidinediones to give only one of the two possible optical isomers, i.e. the D-carbamyl-.alpha.-hydroxy acid. The free D-.alpha.-hydroxy acid can be obtained from the optically active carbamyl derivative by simple hydrolysis. Of particular interest is the case in which the D-.alpha.-hydroxy acid is D(-)mandelic acid. The enzymatic activity required for preparing the carbamyl derivative of D(-)mandelic acid has been found both in homogenized veal liver and in a series of microorganisms, including Agrobacterium radiobacter, Bacillus brevis, Bacillus stearothermophilus, Pseudomonas sp., Pseudomonas desmolytica, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas putida.
4394445	Enzymatic glyceride hydrolysis	A new stable combination of Rhizopus arrhizus lipase and Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase for hydrolyzing triglycerides to free glycerol in body fluids is disclosed. Substantially complete and rapid hydrolysis is provided by a mixture of enzymes using a ratio between 2:1 and 10:1, about 5:1 being preferred, the amounts representing units of activity of each lipase. Approximately 150 units of total lipases will provide substantially complete hydrolysis of the triglycerides contained in 20 microliters of serum up to a minimum concentration of 5 g./l. within 2.5 minutes at 37.degree. C.
4411916	Method of producing milk factor	The substance naturally present in milk (referred to as Milk Factor or MF) which is capable of inhibiting mammalian synthesis of cholesterol is produced by a fermentation process using a culture of Pseudomonas fluorescens loitokitok or other Milk Factor--producing strain of P. fluorescens in a culture medium containing glutaconic acid. The process may be used to increase the Milk Factor content of milk, yogurt, or similar dairy product, or the Milk Factor may be recovered from a culture medium and concentrated, crystallized and used as a food additive.
4414327	Method for the estimation of N-acylated primary aromatic amines	A method for the estimation of an anilide in which the anilide is first hydrolyzed enzymatically to an aniline and then the quantity of the aniline produced is estimated spectrophotometrically preferably colorimetrically. The hydrolysis of the anilide may be catalyzed by any enzyme of the type, EC 3.5.1.13, known as aryl acylamidases. Preferably enzymes isolated from the cells of Pseudomonas fluorescens ATCC 39005 or Pseudomonas putida ATCC 39004 are employed. The aniline may be analyzed, for example, by conversion to an indamine, an indophenol or an indoaniline, followed by colorimetric analysis of the colored quinone-type compound produced. This conversion may take place in the presence of an oxidizing agent, such as a copper (II) salt, and/or a base, such as ammonia. A diagnostic kit to allow the routine use of the above method is also provided. In one embodiment of the kit, it comprises, PA0 (a) an aryl acylamidase, in solution or on a solid support, PA0 (b) an organic compound suitable for the conversion of the aniline to an indamine, an indophenol or an indoaniline, preferably in solution, and PA0 (c) a base, preferably in solution. The kit may further comprise an oxidizing agent, again preferably in solution. The above method of analysis and diagnostic kit may be particularly useful in the estimation of anilide drugs, such as paracetamol, dissolved in biological fluids.
4430433	Production of aryl acylamidases	A process for the production of an aryl acylamidase enzyme involves culturing bacteria of one of the strains Pseudomonas fluorescens ATCC 39005 (or suitable mutants or variants thereof) or Pseudomonas putida ATCC 39004 (or suitable mutants or variants thereof) in a culture medium in which the bacterial strains produce aryl acylamidase and collecting the enzyme containing material, generally the cell material. Preferably the resulting cells are then disrupted, especially by enzymatic treatment, and the aryl acylamidase is separated from the other unwanted substances, generally the other cell constituents. Preferably the culture medium contains N-acylaniline, especially N-acetyl aniline. The N-acylaniline may form part of a complex or defined salts medium.
4456684	Method for screening bacteria and application thereof for field control of diseases caused by Gaeumannomyces graminis	A method for screening bacteria to select strains which will suppress diseases caused by the fungus Gaeumannomyces graminis (Gg) under field conditions and a method for applying field-suppressive bacteria to suppress Gg in a commercial setting. Four fluorescens Pseudomonas strains are disclosed which are effective in suppressing take-all in wheat.
4468461	Microbiological removal of chromate from contaminated waste water	A new strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens is disclosed for use in the removal of chromate from waste water.
4474772	Lysis of trypanosoma cruzi	Trypanosoma cruzi, a protozoan parasite and the causative agent of Chagas' disease (producing chronic symptoms such as cardiomyopathy with heart failure and arrythmia), are lysed within 24 hours by an extracellular substance produced by Pseudomonas fluorescens. This substance, antitrypanosome factor (ATF-II) of a molecular weight approximately 1,000, actively kills the parasites at doses not toxic on mammals such as mice.
4483923	Microbiological process for removing non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater and microorganism capable of same	A process for degrading and removing anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and the like from wastewater containing the same comprising treating wastewater containing the anionic and/or non-ionic surface active agents, detergents and like compounds with a novel microbial strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens under aerobic conditions; and the novel microorganism of the strain Pseudomonas fluorescens.
4489208	Process for producing D(-)mandelic acid	This invention relates to a process for the preparation of D(-) mandelic acid by the acid hydrolysis of the corresponding carbamate in an aqueous environment at a temperature of between 40.degree. and 100.degree. C. and at a pH of between 1 and 3.5. The invention also relates to a process for the enzymatic hydrolysis of racemic 5-substituted 2,4-oxazolidinediones to give only one of the two possible optical isomers, i.e., the D-carbamyl-.alpha.-hydroxy acid. The free D-.alpha.-hydroxy acid can be obtained from the optically active carbamyl derivative by simple hydrolysis. Of particular interest is the case in which the D-.alpha.-hydroxy acid is D(-)mandelic acid. The enzymatic activity required for preparing the carbamyl derivative of D(-)mandelic acid has been found both in homogenised veal liver and in a series of microorganisms, including Agrobacterium radiobacter, Bacillus brevis, Bacillus stearothermophilus, Pseudomonas sp., Pseudomonas desmolytica, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas putida.
4600786	Antibiotic obafluroin	Cultivation of a strain of the microorganism Pseudomonas fluorescens A.T.C.C. No. 39502 yields a novel antibiotic substance 2,3-dihydroxy-N-[2-[(4-nitrophenyl)methyl]-4-oxo-3-oxetanyl]benzamide.
4639534	Isolation of pseudomonic acid	Procedure for isolating lithium pseudomonate from a crude preparation containing pseudomonic acid by extracting the crude preparation into a suitable organic solvent in which pseudomonic acid is soluble, treating the extract with a lithium alkanoic acid and separating the resulting crystalline non-hygroscopic lithium pseudomonate, the crude preparation containing pseudomonic acid being a culture medium on or in which pseudomonic acid producing strains of bacteria have been grown, such as Pseudomonas fluorescens.
4690826	Bacterial enzyme used as cheese ripening aid	A process for producing cheddar cheese having accelerated ripening properties. The process involves using a ripening aid which is a protease derived from the psychrotrophic flora of raw milk, and preferably from the bacteria Pseudomonas fluorescens. The ripening aid is added to the milk starting material prior to or simultaneously with the treatment with a coagulant (renneting agent) and it remains in the cheese product and enhances the development of desirable flavor during the aging (ripening) of the cheese.
4853334	Method for the degradation of volatile chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons using pseudomonas fluorescens	A process for degrading volatile halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons containing 1 to 3 carbon atoms using Pseudomonas fluorescens NRRL-B-18296 is described. The method preferably uses a carbon source, such as glucose or molasses, which stimulates the bacterium to degrade the hydrocarbons and which is readily degraded in the environment so that the halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbon is degraded to carbon dioxide, water and hydrochloric acid so that no toxic residues are produced.
4859594	Microorganisms for biodegrading toxic chemicals	This invention relates to novel microorganisms separated from natural environments and purified and genetically modified, process for immobilizing these microorganisms by affixing then to substrates, the biocatalytic compositions formed by these microorganisms affixed to substrates, and the use of the biocatalytic compositions for the detoxification of toxin-polluted streams. The microorganisms are (1) Pseudomonas fluorescens (ATCC SD 904); (2) Pseudomonas fluorescens (ATCC SD 903); (3) Pseudomonas cepacia (ATCC SD 905); (4) Methylobacter rhodinum (ATCC 113-X); and (5) Methylobacter species (ATCC 16 138-X).
4921798	Synthesis of (aryl or arylalkyl)-3-hydroxy propionic acids and aryl alkanediols having high optical purity	R- and S-1-Phenyl-1,3-propanediol, each of high optical purity, were prepared by a chemoenzymatic sequence starting with ethyl benzoylacetate. The first step was a catalytic hydrogenation of the .beta.-ketoester conducted at room temperature. The enzymatic hydrolysis of the resulting hydroxyester proceeded in a facile manner using a commercial preparation of the lipase from Pseudomonas fluorescens. The enzymatic hydrolysis proceeded at a moderate rate (350 mg lipase/0.10 mol of racemic ester required a 20-hour reaction time with an enantiomeric rate ratio (E value) of 36). The hydrolysis was run to 45-50% conversion to afford isolated S-3-phenyl-3-hydroxypropionic acid of 85-90% ee after separation from the residual ester (aqueous base extraction). The optical purity of the hydroxy acid was determined by conversion to the methyl ester (CH.sub.3 I, KHCO.sub.3, acetone), and derivatization with S-MTPA-Cl, and .sup.1 H NMR analysis. A single recrystallization of the isolated acid afforded optically pure (>98% ee) S-3-phenyl-3-hydroxypropionic acid in an overall 36% yield from the racemic ester. The acid was reduced with borane in THF to afford optically purs S-diol in 97% yield after crystallization. The overall sequence proceeded in 34% total yield from racemic ester with an additional 45-55% recovered as the antipodal ester. This antipodal ester is obtained in 85-95% ee, and the corresponding hydroxy-acid was readily obtained (NaOH), CH.sub.3 OH/H.sub.2 O) and recrystallized to optical purity. Reduction then afforded R-1-phenyl-1,3-propanediol in 30% to overall yield from racemic ester.
4970000	Method for the biological denitrification of water	The biological denitrification of water is improved in a decisive manner by reducing on the one hand the oxygen content of the water prior to passing it through the denitrification state and, on the other hand, by bringing the water into contact with the denitrification bacteria in a fluidized bed formed by sand the grains of which have been populated intentionally with denitrification bacteria of the species "pseudomonas fluorescens". Accordingly, the apparatus for carrying out the method comprises a stage (51) for eliminating oxygen preceding the denitrification reactor (52). If this stage is designed as a degassing stage, the reactor (52) is followed, advantageously, by a decarbonization stage (81).
5165931	Peptifluorin and neopeptifluorin	Two related, novel antibiotic substances, peptifluorin and neopeptifluorin, are prepared by cultivation of strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens, A. T. C. C. No. 53,958 and A. T. C. C. No. 55,129, respectively.
5244658	Biological inoculant effective against aphanomyces	A bacterial inoculant is disclosed for controlling root rot in peas caused by Aphanomyces fungus. The inoculum is obtained from general bacterial strains including strains of Pseudomonas cepacia, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Corynebacterium flaccumfaciens, and two other Bacillus strains of uncertain taxonomy.
5254756	Process for the production of (2R,3E)-4-halo-3-buten-2-ols	(2R,3E)-4-halo-3-buten-2-ols are produced by kinetic resolution of racemates from the corresponding racemates. The racemate is esterified by reaction with a carboxylic acid derivative, preferably with chloroacetyl chloride. Then the (R)-ester is enantioselectively hydrolyzed with a lipase from Pseudomonas fluorescens. The corresponding (2R,3E)-4-halo-3-buten-2-ol also can be obtained from the remaining (S)-ester after separation. The compounds are chiral synthesis structural elements for the production of optically active natural substances.
5334518	Process for preparation of gamma-pyrone derivatives	Disclosed is a novel process for the production of pyrocomenic acid [3-hydroxy-4(1H)-pyran-4-one and rubiginol [3,5-dihydroxy-4(1H)-pyran-4-one, which are starting materials for synthesis of maltols useful as food spices as well as additives for cosmetics. The chemical reactions possibly taking place in the fermentation and the heating post-treatment thereof in the present invention are shown as follows: ##STR1## The microorganisms usable in the above oxidation fermentation include Gluconobacter rubiginosus IFO 3244, Gluconobacter suboxydans IFO 3254, Gluconobacter melanogenus IFO 3293, Pseudomonas fluorescens IFO 3081, Erwinia carotovara IFO 3380 etc.
5371234	Ion specific chelating agents derived from .beta.-hydroxyhistidine, 4-(1-hydroxy-1-alkyl)imidazole and derivatives thereof	.beta.-hydroxyhistidine, 4-(1-hydroxy-1-alkyl)imidazole or derivatives thereof can be used as a bidentate ligand in the chelation of iron(III), Al(III), Cr(III), Ga(III) and the actinides(IV), such as plutonium 238. .beta.-hydroxyhistidine is found in a pyoverdine-type siderophore produced by Pseudomonas fluorescens 244.
5534427	Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase	Nucleic acid sequences, particularly DNA sequences, coding for all or part of a lipase of Pseudomonas fluorescens, wherein said lipase has the amino acid sequence encoded by the nucleotide sequence of the BamHI/HindIII insert of the plasmid pRJ-Ltac1 from Escherichia coli BL21/pRJ-Ltac1 deposited with the American Type Culture Collection, expression vectors containing the DNA sequences, host cells containing the expression vectors, and methods utilizing these materials. The invention also concerns polypeptide molecules comprising all or part of a lipase of Pseudomonas fluorescens, wherein said lipase has the amino acid sequence encoded by the nucleotide sequence of the plasmid pRJ-Ltac1 from Escherichia coli BL21/pRJ-Ltac1 BamHI/HindIII insert of deposited with the American Type Culture Collection, and methods for producing these polypeptides.
5597565	Antibiotics for biological control of post harvest diseases	The present invention relates to novel bacterial isolates and to their use s agents, or source of agents, antagonistic to growth of rot causing organisms. Particularly the present invention provides novel isolates of bacteria of species Pseudomonas fluorescens, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia plymuthica, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus pumilis and Bacillus polymyxa which are particularly effective in inhibiting the growth of organisms of the post-harvest disease causing fungi Botrytis cinerea and Alternaria brassicicola. Further provided are antibiotics derived from the Bacillus species.
5622858	Arthrobacter strain producing esterase for the enantioselective cleavage of 1-arylalkyl esters	The invention concerns a microbial esterase which enantioselectively cleaves (S)-1-phenylethyl acetate and is obtainable from Arthrobacter spec. (DSM 7034), Pseudomonas fluorescens (DSM 7033) or Bacillus subtilis (DSM 7035) as well as a process for enantioselectively cleaving a 1-arylalkyl ester of a carboxylic acid and a process for the production of an enantiomerically-pure 1-arylalkanol using this esterase.
5656169	Biodegradation process for de-toxifying liquid streams	A biological degradation process is disclosed. The biological gradation process utilizes a unique thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture capable of converting, biologically or via oxidation, aqueous and other liquid streams containing substances that are ordinarily considered toxic to conventional biological systems. Substances ordinarily considered toxic to conventional biological systems, but which nevertheless are converted by the thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture, include aniline; benzothiazole; 5,6-dihydro-2-methyl-N-phenyl-1,4-oxathiin-3-carboxamide; lindane (technically known as 1.alpha.,2.alpha.,3.beta.,4.alpha.,5.alpha.,6.beta.-hexachlorocyclohexane) ; 2-mercaptobenzothiazole; toluene; and combinations thereof. The unique thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture comprises relative effective amounts of Pseudomonas stutzeri, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas mendocina and Alcaligenes denitrificans subsp. xylosoxydans. A biological degradation process for treating the liquid stream containing substances ordinarily considered toxic comprises contacting the stream with the thermophilic aerobic bacterial mixture, for an amount of time that is effective for de-toxifying the stream.
5665575	Microbial esterase for the enantioselective cleavage of 1-phenylethyl acetate	The invention concerns a microbial esterase which enantioselectively cleaves (S)-1-phenylethyl acetate and is obtainable from Arthrobacter spec. (DSM 7034), Pseudomonas fluorescens (DSM 7033) or Bacillus subtilis (DSM 7035) as well as a process for enantioselectively cleaving a 1-arylalkyl ester of a carboxylic acid and a process for the production of an enantiomerically-pure 1-arylalkanol using this esterase.
5677168	Enantiomeric separation of (RS)1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol by lipase catalyzed hydrolysis of its acetate	Process for the preparation of one or both enantiomers of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol, which comprises an enantioselective enzymatic hydrolysis of (.+-.)-.alpha.-(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate by means of an enzyme which is horse liver acetone powder, lipase PS from Pseudomonas fluorescens, lipase AK from Pseudomonas or the lipase from Candida antarctica, to give a mixture of unhydrolysed R-(-)-.alpha.-(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate and S-(+)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol, and optional separation of R-(-)-.alpha.-(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate and optional hydrolysis of it to give R-(-)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol and use of the enantiomers of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chlorethanol for the preparation of the enantiomers of eliprodil and of their salts.
5711945	Pitch degradation with Pseudomonas fluorescens	The bacteria Pseudomonas fluorescens and Xanthomonas campestris are useful in reducing the pitch content of pulps and pulpwoods used in making cellulosic products. Such bacteria are also useful in reducing the color staining by staining fungi of structural wood by inoculating the structural wood or log sources from which it is to be cut.
5741663	Selective additive and media for Pseudomonas fluorescens	The present invention provides methods and compositions for the specific detection of Pseudomonas fluorescens and for the selective growth of this bacterium. In a preferred embodiment, selective growth of P. fluorescens is effected by the combination of Irgasan, carbenicillin and nitrofurantoin in a bacteriological medium comprising suitable nutrients for its growth. Also provided is a fast, reliable and economical method for the assessment of microbial quality of a fresh animal product, such as poultry, beef, fish, shellfish, milk or the like, using media selective for the growth of P. fluorescens and detection methods for microbial growth in the selective media.
5766926	Pitch degradation with wood colonizing bacteria	The bacteria Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pantoea (Enterobacter) agglomerans, Bacillus cereus, and Xanthomonas campestris are useful in reducing the pitch content of pulps and pulpwoods used in making cellulosic products. Such bacteria are also useful in reducing the color staining by staining fungi of structural wood by inoculating the structural wood or log sources from which it is to be cut.
5780080	Cabbages treated to control post-harvest diseases	Growth of organisms of the post-harvest disease causing fungi Botrytis cinerea and Alternaria brassicicola is inhibited by applying to vegetables of the Brassica family, particularly cabbage, isolates of bacteria of species Pseudomonas fluorescens, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia plymuthica, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus pumilis and Bacillus polymyxa.
5849284	Biological control of molluscs with dauer larvae of Phasmarhabditis nematodes	The invention disclosed is related to a composition for the control of molluscs wherein an effective amount of infective dauer larvae of Phasmarhabditis nematodes which have been cultured with a nematode growth promoting and pathogenicity-inducing bacterium, as well as a carrier or encapsulation agent are provided as the ingredients for the composition. Further, the composition can be used in the form of a water-dispersable powder comprising as the carrier a calcium montmorillonite clay. The nematode concentration in the water-dispersable powder is 0.1.times.10.sup.6 to 2.0.times.10.sup.6 per gram of total composition (wet weight), and preferably from 0.3.times.10.sup.6 to 0.8.times.10.sup.6 per gram of the total composition (wet weight). Further, the nematodes are selected from amongst the species P. neopapillosa or P. hermaphrodita. The growth promoting bacterium is a Moraxella osloensis strain or Pseudomonas fluorescens strain.
5869038	Biological control of fungal post harvest diseases with bacteria	Isolates of bacteria of species Pseudomonas fluorescens, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia plymuthica, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus pumilis and Bacillus polymyxa are effective in cabbages in inhibiting the growth of organisms of the post-harvest disease causing fungi Botrytis cinerea and Alternaria brassicicola.
5919448	Plant growth regulator	Disclosed herein is plant growth regulator comprising an isolated Pseudomonas fluorescens FPT-9601 strain or an isolated Pseudomonas sp. FPH-9601 strain which are endosymbiotic pseudomonads.
5962624	Enzymatic synthesis of polyesters	A linear polyester is made by a process reacting polyols comprising at least two primary alcohol groups and at least one secondary alcohol or amino group and a dicarboxylic acid or a dicarboxylic acid ester in the presence of an effective amount of a lipase derived from Candida cylindracea, Candida lipolytica, Candida rugosa, Candida antarctica, Candida utilis, Chromobacterium viscosum, Geotrichum viscosum, Geotrichum candidum, Mucor javanicus, Mucor miehei, Porcine pancreas, Pseudomonas species, specifically Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas cepacia, Pseudomonas pseudoalkaligenes, Pseudomonas alkaligenes, Thermomyces species, Rhizopus arrhizus, Rhizopus delemar, Rhizopus niveus, Rhizopus oryzae, Rhizopus javanicus, Aspergillus niger, Penicillium roquefortii, Penicillium camembertii or an esterase derived from Bacillus species, specifically Bacillus thermoglucosidasius; Mucor miehei, Horse liver, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Pigs liver or combinations thereof. The secondary OH or amino group of the polyol moiety is unreacted.
6017724	Oxidoreductase and method for preparing 3-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propenol derivatives or the like using the enzyme	The present invention relates to a novel enzyme which is derived from bacterial cells of a strain belonging to the genus Pseudomonas fluorescens and which catalyzes a reaction for oxidizing substrates such as p-hydroxytoluene derivatives and p-alkylphenol derivatives as well as a method for preparing, for instance, 3-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propenol derivatives, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde derivatives, p-alkylphenol derivatives and optically active S(-)-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl) alcohol derivatives, using the enzyme.
6048713	Pseudomonas fluorescens	A novel Pseudomonas fluorescens is disclosed which has an antagonist property against pathogenic fungi of the genera Pythium, Rhizoctonia, Sclerotinia and Gaeumannomyces and which has a DNA that forms a PCR product band at about 800 bp when replicated and amplified by PCR using a primer DNA having the base sequence of 5'-GGCAACTGCACAAGCGCCA (SEQ ID NO: 1) and a primer DNA having the base sequence of 5'-GCCAATCACGCCCTCAAGCT (SEQ ID NO: 2) and then electrophoresed on agarose gel. This microorganism can also promote the growth of plants. A material for controlling pathogenic fungi of plants, particularly, lawn grass, a plant growth promoting material and a compost comprising the microorganism are also disclosed.
6323011	Production of vanillin	A method of producing vanillin comprising the steps of: (1) providing trans-ferulic acid or salt thereof; and (2) providing trans-ferulate; CoASH ligase activity (enzyme activity I) trans-feruloyl SCoA hydratase activity (enzyme activity II), and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl-.beta.-hydroxy-propionyl SCoA (HMPHP SCoA) cleavage activity (enzyme activity III). Conveniently the enzymes are provided by Pseudomonas fluorescens Fe3 or a mutant or derivative thereof. Polypeptides with enzymes activities II and III and polynucleotides encoding said polypeptides. Use of said polypeptides or said polynucleotides in a method for producing vanillin.
6406882	Immobilized microbial consortium for the treatment of phenolic waste-water from petroleum refineries	An immobilized microbial consortium is formulated which comprises of a synergistic mixture of all the bacterial strains of Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Bacillus circulans, Yersinia enterocolitica, Enterobacter cloaca and Bacillus brevis. The formulated microbial consortium is immobilized on a non-biodegradable and economically cheaper support. The said immobilized microbial consortium is used for the biodegradation of synthetic phenol as well as phenol present in petroleum refinery effluent. The results of biodegradation obtained with the microbial consortium immobilized on coconut fiber are compared with those obtained with microbial consortium immobilized on well known support. The coconut fiber used for immobilization proved to be a better support than a well known support such as calcium alginate.
6447770	Biocontrol agents for take-all	Fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. are described which are effective for the control of diseases caused by the soil-borne fungus, Gaeumannomyces graminis (Gg), such as take-all, in small grain crops or turf grass. The subject biocontrol strains have a unique genotype as shown by a characteristic banding pattern, and exhibit root-colonizing ability which is characterized by both higher population density on roots and extended colonizing activity compared to known Gg-suppressive strains. A further property is the ability of a strain to duplicate the level of biocontrol obtained naturally in a take-all decline soil. Methods for isolation and identification of the strains and their use to control diseases caused by Gg are provided. In particular, strains of P. fluorescens NRRL B-21806 and NRRL B-21807.
6495362	Biologically pure culture of bacteria which suppresses diseases caused by pathogens in chickpea crops and a culture of bacteria comprising a strain of Pseudomonas fluorescens	A simple sand-live soil assay method for large scale screening of the rhizosphere-competent bacteria, effective in suppressing plant pathogens has been developed. Screening for chickpea rhizosphere competitive bacteria having biological control property was conducted at three different stages: development of screening method for large scale initial selection of bacteria isolates from chickpea rhizosphere, testing of biocontrol activity under in vitro conditions and screening of antibiotic resistant mutants for rhizosphere competence in nonsterile field soil, which assay is used to disclose one Pseudomonas fluorescens NBRI 1303 (ATCC 55939) which is effective in suppressing plant pathogens, including Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri, Rhizoctonia bataticola and Phthium sp. in chickpeas and the purified bacterial strain can be used as active agent for biocontrol compositions and can also be used for enhancement of chickpea plant growth and yield, as well as for the production of antibiotics directed towards phytopathogenic fungal diseases.
6531293	Immobilized microbial consortium useful for rapid and reliable BOD estimation	An immobilized microbial consortium is formulated which comprises of a synergistic mixture of isolated bacteria namely, Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Yersinia enterocolitica, Serratia liquefaciens, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Enterobacter cloaca, Klebsiella oxytoca, Citrobacter amalonaticus and Enterobacter sakazaki. The formulated microbial consortium is immobilized on charged nylon membrane. The said immobilized microbial consortium is attached to dissolved oxygen probe for the preparation of electrode assembly. The prepared electrode assembly is used for rapid and reliable BOD estimation. The prepared electrode assembly is used for monitoring of BOD load of synthetic samples such as Glucose-Glutamic acid (GGA) used as a reference standard in BOD analysis and industrial effluents; covering a range from low to high biodegradable organic matter.
6664045	PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits pertaining to the detection of microorganisms	This invention is related to novel PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits pertaining to the detection of microorganisms. The probes, probe sets, methods and kits of this invention can be used to detect, identify or quantitate one or more organisms in a sample wherein the organisms are selected from the group consisting of E. coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas cepatia, Pseudomonas fluorescens or organisms of a bacterial genus including the Salmonella genus, Bacillus genus or Pseudomonas genus. The preferred probing nucleobase sequence of the PNA probes used to detect the bacteria listed above are TCA-ATG-AGC-AAA-GGT (E. coli); GCT-TCT-CGT-CCG-TTC (Staphylococcus aureus); CTG-AAT-CCA-GGA-GCA and AAC-TTG-CTG-AAC-CAC (Pseudomonas aeruginosa); CCA-TCG-CAT-CTA-ACA (Pseudomonas cepatia); TCT-AGT-CAG-TCA-GTT (Pseudomonas fluorescens); CCG-ACT-TGA-CAG-ACC and CCT-GCC-AGT-TTC-GAA (Salmonella genus); CTT-TGT-TCT-GTC-CAT (Bacillus genus); GCT-GGC-CTA-GCC-TTC, GTC-CTC-CTT-GCG-GTT and TTC-TCA-TCC-GCT-CGA (Pseudomonas genus). The PNA probes, probe sets, methods and kits of this invention are particularly well suited for use in multiplex PNA-FISH assays.
6664088	Production of vanillin	A method of producing vanillin comprising the steps of: (1) providing trans-ferulic acid or a salt thereof; and (2) providing trans-ferulate: CoASH ligase activity (enzyme activity I), trans-feruloyl ScoA hydratase activity (enzyme activity II), and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl-&bgr;-hydroxy-propionyl SCoA (HMPHP SCoA) cleavage activity (enzyme activity III). Conveniently the enzymes are provided by Pseudomonas fluorescens Fe3 or a mutant or derivative thereof. Polypeptides with enzymes activities II and III and polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides. Use of the polypeptides or the polynucleotides in a method for producing vanillin is also provided.
6709853	Process for the preparation of cell beads BOD sensor useful for instant BOD estimation	Immobilized cell beads incorporating formulated microbial consortium comprising a synergistic mixture of the following bacterial strains namely, Enterobacter sakazaki, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas sobria selected from the following isolated bacterial strains namely, Yersinia enterocolitica, Aeromonas sobria, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Serratia liquefaciens, Enterobacter sakazaki, Citrobacter amalonaticus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter cloaca, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus are prepared, the formulated microbial consortium is immobilized in an appropriate immobilizing agent resulting in the formation of beads and the beads are used for instant BOD estimation using an electronic device and the formulated cell beads are reusable and are capable of assimilating most of the organic matter present in varied industrial effluents.
6821739	Methods of diagnosing and treating Crohn's disease using Pseudomonas antigens	The present invention provides a method of identifying an agent useful in treating Crohn's disease. This method is practiced by culturing P. fluorescens under conditions that support growth; contacting the P. fluorescens with an agent; and assaying for reduced growth or viability of the P. fluorescens as compared to the growth or viability in the absence of the agent, where the reduced growth or viability of the P. fluorescens indicates that the agent is an anti-P. fluorescens agent useful in treating Crohn's disease. Also provided by the invention is a method of preventing or treating Crohn's disease in an individual by administering to the individual an effective dose of an anti-Pseudomonas vaccine.
7052901	Bacteria-based and enzyme-based mechanisms and products for viscosity reduction breaking of viscoelastic fluids	It has been discovered that fluids viscosified with viscoelastic surfactants (VESs) may have their viscosities reduced (gels broken) by the direct or indirect action of a biochemical agent, such as bacteria, fungi, and/or enzymes. The biochemical agent may directly attack the VES itself, or some other component in the fluid that produces a by-product that then causes viscosity reduction. The biochemical agent may disaggregate or otherwise attack the micellar structure of the VES-gelled fluid. The biochemical agent may produce an enzyme that reduces viscosity by one of these mechanisms. A single biochemical agent may operate simultaneously by two different mechanisms, such as by degrading the VES directly, as well as another component, such as a glycol, the latter mechanism in turn producing a by-product (e.g. an alcohol) that causes viscosity reduction. Alternatively, two or more different biochemical agents may be used simultaneously. In a specific, non-limiting instance, a brine fluid gelled with an amine oxide surfactant can have its viscosity broken with bacteria such as Enterobacter cloacae, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the like.
7312379	Methods for production of plants resistant to HPPD herbicides	Methods for making transgenic plants that are resistant to HPPD herbicides are presented. Polynucleotides other than those from Pseudomonas fluorescens that encode resistant HPPD enzymes are enclosed for use in the process of making transgenic plants that are tolerant to HPPD-inhibiting herbicides.
7553656	Mutant strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens and variants thereof, methods for their production, and uses thereof in alginate production	It is described biologically pure bacterial cultures of mutant strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens, which produces large amounts of alginate. The alginate may contain a certain determined content of mannuronate and guluronate residues, possible presence and determined level of acetyl groups in the alginate, and a desired molecular weight of the alginate. Also high yielding mutants with regulation of alginate production, is described. The invention further provides methods for producing new mutant strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens and variants thereof, and use the resulting strains in alginate production.
7556046	Method of reducing nitrosamines content in tobacco leaves	A method of reducing the content of TSNA in tobacco leaves, comprising treating tobacco leaves with a microorganism which has the capability to reduce TSNA and which is selected from the group consisting of Sphingomonas paucimobilis and Pseudomonas fluorescens.
7595173	Low-cost production of peptides	The subject invention relates to a low cost method of producing peptides, including antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), by using microbes. The subject methods enable greatly improved yields of the peptide/AMP as compared to those heretofore known in the art. The subject methods also surprisingly enable the use of Pseudomonas fluorescens to produce AMPs and other peptides. There are several components of the subject invention, which can be used alone or in combination. The subject invention provides for the production of peptides/AMPs in concatemeric precursors. The subject invention also provides novel methods of assembling monomers into multimers, and of cleaving the multimers to yield active monomers. The subject invention also relates to the use of these multimers fused to carrier peptides to produce fusion proteins. Preferably, both the multimers and the fusion proteins (multimers with the carrier polypeptides) lack charge balancing. It has been surprisingly determined that it is not necessary to offset the positive charges of multiple copies of AMPs in multimeric constructs. Thus, the subject invention enables the use of a wider range of multimers and carrier peptides.
7658851	Method of growing bacteria for use in wastewater treatment	A device and method for growing aerobic and facultatively anaerobic bacteria such as Pseudomonas Fluorescens, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus licheniformis, Starkeya novella and various autotrophic sulfur metabolizing bacteria, along with methods for releasing these bacteria into suspended growth or fixed film wastewater treatment zones such as soil or media, for the purposes of bioremediation and the removal of nitrogen, sulfur, and carbon wastes.
7745175	Polynucleotides encoding Clostridium perfringens alpha toxin proteins	This invention pertains in part to the development of a vaccine for poultry against necrotic enteritis (NE). The vaccine utilizes a protective antigen that is a mutated, full-length, non-toxic Clostridium perfringens (Cp) a-toxin protein (Mcpa). Utility of this vaccine was demonstrated by reduction of lesion severity in NE challenge trails, for example. Also disclosed herein are novel approaches for producing this vaccine in significant quantities. One exemplified approach involves producing NE vaccine (mutated alpha toxin) in bacterial expression systems, preferably utilizing the Pseudomonas fluorescens system, for commercial use in controlling NE in the poultry industry. The subject vaccines can be administered preferably to chickens in several different ways. A novel, Type VI alpha toxin from chicken isolates of Cp is also disclosed.
7815903	Process for commercial production of biopesticides	The invention relates to a process for producing biopesticides based on Trichoderma harzianum, Pochonia chlamydosporia and Pseudomonas fluorescens comprising preparing mass or stock culture of biocontrol fungi and bacteria on sawdust, soil and molasses mixture, and then immobilizing the bioagents in a flyable based carrier.
7842494	Micro-organisms for the treatment of soil and process for obtaining them	The present invention relates to product(s) containing living microorganism(s) suitable for soil treatment, microorganisms multiplying under different climatic and natural circumstances, as well as procedures for the production of the products, and procedures for the treatment of the soil and plants with the products. More particularly, the invention relates to a procedure for preparing the products from any of the microorganisms specified below, or from the mixture thereof. Furthermore, the invention relates to a procedure for the creation of the cultures of the microorganisms to be used. The subject invention also pertains to the microorganisms themselves. More particularly, the invention relates to a procedure for the treatment of the soil and the plants with a product containing at least one of the microorganisms selected from Azospirillum brasilense ssp. SW51 (NCAIM /P/ B 001293), Azotobacter vinelandii ssp. M657 (NCAIM /P/B 001292), Pseudomonas fluorescens var. SW11 (NCAIM /P/ B 001296), Bacillus polymyxa var. SW17 (NCAIM /P/ B 001295), Bacillus megaterium var. M326 (NCAIM /P/ B 001291), Micrococcus roseus ssp. A21 (NCAIM /P/B 001294), Bradyrhizobium japonicum var. PH25 (NCAIM /P/ B 001302), and Streptomyces albus var. 0003 LP (NCAIM /P/ B 001301), and furthermore the products multiplying and existing in the environment of the plant in question, containing the listed microorganisms and their production.
7923005	Process for producing a bio-pesticide composition containing Trichoderma harzianum and Pseudomonas fluorescens	A process for the production of organic and combination formulation of bio-pesticide containing Trichoderma harzianum and Pseudomonas fluorescens comprising preparation of mother culture, liquid fermentation as well as solid fermentation of T. harzianum, preparation of mother culture, liquid fermentation as well as solid fermentation of P. fluorescens separately, followed by mixing both the bio-pesticides in the proportion of 1-2: 1-2: preferably 1:1 to get the final combination, formulation.
7982006	Clostridium perfringens alpha toxin proteins	This invention pertains in part to the development of a vaccine for poultry against necrotic enteritis (NE). The vaccine utilizes a protective antigen that is a mutated, full-length, non-toxic Clostridium perfringens (Cp) a-toxin protein (Mcpa). Utility of this vaccine was demonstrated by reduction of lesion severity in NE challenge trails, for example. Also disclosed herein are novel approaches for producing this vaccine in significant quantities. One exemplified approach involves producing NE vaccine (mutated alpha toxin) in bacterial expression systems, preferably utilizing the Pseudomonas fluorescens system, for commercial use in controlling NE in the poultry industry. The subject vaccines can be administered preferably to chickens in several different ways. A novel, Type VI alpha toxin from chicken isolates of Cp is also disclosed.
7985564	Expression systems with sec-system secretion	Improved methods and prokaryotic expression systems for producing recombinant proteins using Sec-system secretion signal peptides are described using Pseudomonas fluorescens Sec secretion systems. Specific novel Sec-system secretion signal peptides are described, as are fusion proteins and coding sequences for improved secretion of recombinant proteins and peptides.
8053641	Methods for the production of plants resistant to HPPD herbicides	Methods for making transgenic plants that are resistant to HPPD herbicides are presented. Polynucleotides other than those from Pseudomonas fluorescens that encode resistant HPPD enzymes are enclosed for use in the process of making transgenic plants that are tolerant to HPPD-inhibiting herbicides.
8129170	Recombinant bacteria having the ability to metabolize sucrose	Recombinant bacteria capable of metabolizing sucrose are described. The recombinant bacteria comprise in their genome or on at least one recombinant construct: a nucleotide sequence from Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf5 (ATCC® BAA-477) encoding a polypeptide having sucrose transporter activity and a nucleotide sequence from Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf5 (ATCC® BAA-477) encoding a polypeptide having sucrose hydrolase activity. These nucleotide sequences are each operably linked to the same or a different promoter. Recombinant bacteria capable of metabolizing sucrose to produce glycerol and/or glycerol-derived products such as 1,3-propanediol and 3-hydroxypropionic acid are also described.
8168172	Process for the production of organic formulation of bio-pesticide Pseudomonas fluorescens	This invention relates to a process for the production of organic formulation of bio pesticide containing Pseudomonas Fluorescens comprising preparation of Mother culture of P. fluorescens and inoculating in King's B broth, at 30±1° C. for 24-36 hours followed by liquid fermentation process in 5-10% pongamia cake aqueous extract, 5-10% neem cake aqueous extract, 0.3-0.5% sugarcane molasses and King's B broth followed by solid fermentation using sterile Pongamia deoiled cake, Neem deoiled cake, wheat Bran.
8278246	Biocontrol of storage maladies of potatoes by bacterial antagonists produced in co-culture	Bacterial compositions effective for inhibiting fungal diseases of potatoes and/or potato sprouting are produced by co-culture of two or more of Pseudomonas fluorescens (NRRL B-21133), Pseudomonas fluorescens biovar (NRRL B-21053), Pseudomonas fluorescens (NRRL B-21102) and Enterobacter cloacae (NRRL B-21050). Compositions produced by co-culture of these bacteria together in the same culture medium are significantly more effective for inhibiting fungi-induced diseases of potatoes and/or inhibiting sprouting of potatoes, than blends or mixtures of the same bacteria cultured separately.
8569015	RPA optimization	An optimized synthetic polynucleotide encoding a Bacillus anthracis protective antigen and an anthrax vaccine based on the encoded protective antigen. Furthermore, heterologous expression in a host Pseudomonas fluorescens bacteria of an optimized polynucleotide sequence encoding a Bacillus anthracis protective antigen.
8628764	Biocontrol of storage maladies of potatoes by bacterial antagonists produced in co-culture	Bacterial compositions effective for inhibiting fungal diseases of potatoes and/or potato sprouting are produced by co-culture of two or more of Pseudomonas fluorescens (NRRL B-21133), Pseudomonas fluorescens biovar (NRRL B-21053), Pseudomonas fluorescens (NRRL B-21102) and Enterobacter cloacae (NRRL B-21050). Compositions produced by co-culture of these bacteria together in the same culture medium are significantly more effective for inhibiting fungi-induced diseases of potatoes and/or inhibiting sprouting of potatoes, than blends or mixtures of the same bacteria cultured separately.
8735660	Methods for the production of plants resistant to HPPD herbicides	Methods for making transgenic plants that are resistant to HPPD herbicides are presented. Polynucleotides other than those from Pseudomonas fluorescens that encode resistant HPPD enzymes are enclosed for use in the process of making transgenic plants that are tolerant to HPPD-inhibiting herbicides.
8771959	Methods for the production of plants resistant to HPPD herbicides	Methods for making transgenic plants that are resistant to HPPD herbicides are presented. Polynucleotides other than those from Pseudomonas fluorescens that encode resistant HPPD enzymes are enclosed for use in the process of making transgenic plants that are tolerant to HPPD-inhibiting herbicides.
9029113	Modified aminotransferase, gene thereof, and method for producing optically active amino compound using same	Provided is a method for efficiently producing from a ketone compound an optically active amino compound useful as an intermediate of a drug, an agricultural chemical, or the like. Provided are: a polypeptide having aminotransferase activity that is increased in stereoselectivity, heat resistance, and resistance to amine compounds compared to the wild type enzyme by means of modifying an aminotransferase derived from Pseudomonas fluorescens; a gene encoding the polypeptide; and a transformant that expresses the gene at a high level.
9101144	Plant growth promoting rhizobacterium	The present invention is directed to the Pseudomonas fluorescens strain GM30 deposited under ATCC Accession No. PTA-13340, compositions containing the GM30 strain, and methods of using the GM30 strain to enhance plant growth and/or enhance plant resistance to pathogens.
9199288	Bioremediation of perchlorate-contaminated media	Methods for bioremediation of environmental media contaminated with at least one perchlorate compound. A Pseudomonas consortium of P. putida strain B, P. putida strain E, and P. fluorescens strain G was provided to contaminated water, soil, etc. under conditions to result in bioremediated water, soil, etc. In embodiments, the method is used ex-situ, e.g., in a reactor vessel, or is used in-situ.
9414602	Pseudomonas fluorescens inhibit annual bluegrass and rough bluegrass root growth and germination	A biocontrol agent containing one or more novel and isolated Pseudomonas fluorescens strains (P. fluorescens biovar B strain XJ3 (NRRL B-50851), P. fluorescens biovar B strain XS18 (NRRL B-50852), and P. fluorescens biovar A strain LRS 12 (NRRL B-50853)) and a biocontrol agent containing one, two or three of these bacteria with an agriculturally acceptable carrier are useful for the control of annual bluegrass and rough bluegrass root growth and germination. The biocontrol agents of this invention may be applied to the soil and/or seeds in the fall with inhibition occurring in subsequent years. The biocontrol agent can also be used in combination with herbicides that can inhibit the growth and seed production of any standing annual bluegrass and/or fertilizer to stimulate growth of the desirable plant that will compete with the annual bluegrass weed and/or rough bluegrass. Methods for use of these biocontrol agents to control to growth of annual bluegrass and rough bluegrass are also provided.
9453251	Expression of mammalian proteins in Pseudomonas fluorescens	The invention is a process for improved production of a recombinant mammalian protein by expression in a Pseudomonad, particularly in a Pseudomonas fluorescens organism. The process improves production of mammalian proteins, particularly human or human-derived proteins, over known expression systems such as E. coli in comparable circumstances Processes for improved production of isolated mammalian, particularly human, proteins are provided.
9458487	Expression of mammalian proteins in pseudomonas fluorescens	The invention is a process for improved production of a recombinant mammalian protein by expression in a Pseudomonad, particularly in a Pseudomonas fluorescens organism. The process improves production of mammalian proteins, particularly human or human-derived proteins, over known expression systems such as E. coli in comparable circumstances Processes for improved production of isolated mammalian, particularly human, proteins are provided.
9528115	Pseudomonas fluorescens2-79 with genes for biosynthesis of pyrrolnitrin improves biocontrol activity	In exemplary embodiments, the invention provides Pseudomonas fluorescens 2-79 strains having pyrrolnitrin biosynthetic genes for biocontrol of soilborne diseases.
9578884	Pseudomonas species having weed-suppressive activity and benign soil survival traits for annual grass weed management	In exemplary embodiments, the disclosure provides weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens strains effective for controlling one or more invasive grass weeds that are members selected from the group consisting of downy brome (cheatgrass, Bromus tectorum L.), medusahead (Taeniatherum caput medusae (L.) Nevski) and jointed goatgrass (Aegilops cylindrica L.). In exemplary embodiments, the weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens bacterial strain is a member selected from the group consisting of: Pseudomonas fluorescens strain ACK55, Pseudomonas fluorescens strain NKK78 and Pseudomonas fluorescens strain SMK69. In still other exemplary embodiments the disclosure provides methods for selecting weed-suppressive Pseudomonas fluorescens strains.
9657298	Recombinant nitrogen-fixing bacterial strain, inoculum containing the same and application methods	Recombinant bacterial strains comprising heterologous nif genes in its genome, and capable of fixing nitrogen. The strain may be, for example, a recombinant Pseudomonas fluorescens strain comprising heterologous nif genes in its genome. An inoculum and a method for increasing plant productivity are further described.
9713333	Product and method for managing Ganoderma disease in oil palm	A product for treating and/or preventing diseases such as basal stem rot caused by Ganoderma infection, in plants such as oil palms, comprising a growth medium used to grow Pseudomonas fluorescens bacteria, said growth medium including palm oil mill effluent.
9802230	Bioremediation of perchlorate-contaminated media	Methods for bioremediation of environmental media contaminated with at least one perchlorate compound. A Pseudomonas consortium of P. putida strain B, P. putida strain E, and P. fluorescens strain G was provided to contaminated water, soil, etc. under conditions to result in bioremediated water, soil, etc. In embodiments, the method is used ex-situ, e.g., in a reactor vessel, or is used in-situ.
9862922	Rapid growth activator	A composition of matter is provided having bacillus subtilis, bacillus pumilus, bacillus coagulans, paenibacillus polymyxa, pseudomonas fluorescens, streptomycetes griseus, saccharomyces cerevisiae, trichoderma reesei, and trichoderma harzianum. The composition further includes dextrose, sucrose, brewer's yeast extract, humic acid, and kelp. Applying the composition in the proximity of the root system allows the composition to colonize the rhizosphere. The composition is generated by individually culturing the components, combining them with diatomaceous earth, and drying to encapsulate the components.
9918479	Control of phytopathogenic microorganisms with Pseudomonas sp. and substances and compositions derived therefrom	Provided are compounds and compositions derived from Pseudomonas sp., particularly, Pseudomonas fluorescens or Pseudomonas protegens and more particularly strain having the identifying characteristics of Pseudomonas ATCC 55799 having antimicrobial properties and particularly, antibacterial properties.
